 Runx2 is a key transcription factor which is associated with osteoblast differentiation and expressed in ER human breast cancer cell lines . Runx2 also participates in mammary gland development . Deregulation of RNA Pol III genes is tightly linked to tumor development while Brf1 specifically regulates these gene transcription . However nothing is known about the effect of Runx2 on Brf1 expression and Pol III gene transcription . Expression of Runx2 Brf1 and Pol III genes from the samples of human breast cancer and cell culture model were determined by the assays of RT qPCR immunoblot luciferase reporter activity immunohistochemistry chromatin immunoprecipitation and Immunofluorescence . High expression of Runx2 is observed in the cases of breast cancer . The patients of high Runx2 expression at early stages display longer survival period whereas the cases of high Runx2 at advanced stages reveal faster recurrence . The identification of signaling pathway indicates that JNK1 and c Jun mediate Runx2 transcription . Repression of Runx2 reduces Brf1 expression and Pol III gene transcription . Further analysis indicates that Runx2 is colocalized with Brf1 in nucleus of breast cancer tissue . Both Runx2 and Brf1 synergistically modulate Pol III gene transcription . These studies indicate that Brf1 overexpression is able to be used as an early diagnosis biomarker of breast cancer while high Runx2 expression indicates long survival period and faster recurrence . Runx2 mediates the deregulation of Brf1 and Pol III genes and its abnormal expression predicts the worse prognosis of breast cancer .

@highlight Runx2 was overexpressed in human cases of breast cancer. High Runx2 expression of breast cancer cases display worse prognosis.
@highlight Alcohol increased Runx2 to elevate Brf1 and Pol III gene transcription. Inhibiting Runx2 repressed Brf1 expression and Pol III gene transcription.
@highlight Runx2 and Brf1 colocalize in nucleus of tumor tissue of breast cancer to synergistically modulate Pol III gene transcription..
@highlight Decreasing Runx2 expression caused phenotypic changes in breast cancer cells.
