 Cardiovascular disorders constitute the principal cause of deaths worldwide and will continue as the major disease burden by the year 2060 . A significant proportion of heart failures occur because of use and misuse of drugs and most of the investigational agents fail to achieve any clinical relevance . Here we investigated rosuvastatin and retinoic acid for their pharmacological pleiotropy against high dose adrenergic agonist induced acute myocardial insult . Rats were pretreated with rosuvastatin and or retinoic acid for seven days and the myocardial injury was induced by administering isoproterenol on the seventh and eighth day . After induction rats were anaesthetized for electrocardiography then sacrificed and different samples were collected stored for various downstream assays . Myocardial injury with isoproterenol resulted in increased cardiac mass decreased R wave amplitude increased QRS and QT durations elevated levels of cardiac markers like cTnI CK MB ALT and AST increased lipid peroxidation protein carbonylation and tissue nitric oxide levels decreased endogenous antioxidants like SOD CAT GR GST GPx and total antioxidant activity increased inflammatory markers like TNF and IL 6 decreased the mRNA expression of Nrf2 and Bcl 2 increased the mRNA expression of Bax eNOS and iNOS genes . Pretreatment with rosuvastatin and or retinoic acid mitigated many of the above biochemical and pathological alterations . Our results demonstrate that rosuvastatin and retinoic acid exert cardioprotective effects and may act as potential agents in the prevention of adrenergic agonist induced acute myocardial injury in rats . Cardioprotective potential of rosuvastatin and retinoic acid could be attributed to their influence on the redox pathways immunomodulation membrane stability Nrf2 preservation iNOS and Bax expression levels . Thus they may act directly or indirectly at various steps the breakpoints in the pathophysiological cascade responsible for cardiac injury . Our study gives insights about the pharmacological pleiotropism of rosuvastatin and retinoic acid .

@highlight Rosuvastatin and retinoic acid diminish myocardial injury induced by isoprenaline in rats.
@highlight Rosuvastatin and retinoic acid may show pleiotropic action.
@highlight Have antioxidant properties against isoprenaline induced cardiac stress.
@highlight Mitigate inflammatory response induced by isoprenaline in cardiac tissue.
@highlight Affect various factors like TNF Nrf2 Bax and iNOS.
