 4 methylesculetin is a natural antioxidant coumarin with protective effects on the intestinal inflammation in which oxidative stress plays a key role in its aetiology and pathophysiology . Based on this we examined the antioxidant molecular mechanisms involved in the intestinal anti inflammatory activity of the 4ME . For this purpose we investigated the effects of the 4ME on the modulation of gene expression and antioxidant related enzyme activities in TNBS model of intestinal inflammation as well as the molecular interaction between 4ME and glutathione reductase . Our results showed that 4ME modulated glutathione related enzymes mainly increasing glutathione reductase activity . These effects were related to upregulation of glutathione reductase and Nrf2 gene expression . Fluorescence and nuclear magnetic resonance data showed that interaction between 4ME and glutathione reductase is collisional hydrophobic and spontaneous in which C4 methyl group is the second epitope most buried into glutathione reductase . Molecular modelling calculation showed Lys70 B Arg81 A Glu381 B Asp443 A Ser444 A Glu447 B and Ser475 A participated in electrostatic interaction Lys70 B Glu381 B and Arg81 A acted in the hydrophobic interactions and Trp73 Phe377 and Ala446 are responsible for the hydrogen bonds . Based on this our results showed 4ME acted by different mechanisms to control oxidative stress induced by intestinal damage controlling the imbalance between myeloperoxidase activity and glutathione production upregulating the glutathione S transferase and glutathione reductase activities preventing the Nrf2 and glutathione gene expression downregulation with consequent glutathione maintenance . Finally 4ME interacted at molecular level with glutathione reductase stabilizing its enzymatic activity and reducing oxidative stress to take place in intestinal inflammatory process .

@highlight 4 methylesculetin 4ME is an antioxidant and intestinal anti inflammatory coumarin.
@highlight 4ME acts modulating glutathione related enzymes to produce antioxidant properties.
@highlight 4ME upregulated glutathione reductase GSR activity and gene expression.
@highlight 4ME upregulated Nrf2 expression leading to GSR regeneration and maintenance.
@highlight 4ME binding with GSR stabilizing its enzymatic activity and reducing oxidative stress.
