 Oxidative stress in cardiac myocytes is an important pathogenesis of cardiac lipotoxicity . Autophagy is a cellular self digestion process that can selectively remove damaged organelles under oxidative stress and thus presents a potential therapeutic target against cardiac lipotoxicity . Globular CTRP9 is a newly identified adiponectin paralog with established metabolic regulatory properties . The aim of this work is to investigate whether autophagy participates the protection effects of gCTRP9 in neonatal rat cardiac myocytes under oxidative stress and the underlying mechanism . NRCMs were treated with PA of various concentrations for indicated time period . Our results showed that PA enhanced intracellular ROS accumulation decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased activation of caspases 3 . These changes suggested lipotoxicity due to excessive PA . In addition PA was observed to impair autophagic flux in NRCMs and impaired autophagosome clearance induced by PA contributes to cardiomyocyte death . Besides we found that gCTRP9 increased the ratio of LC3II I and the expression of ATG5 which was vital to the formation of autophagosomes and decreased the level of P62 suggesting enhanced autophagic flux in the absence or presence of PA . The result was further confirmed by the methods of infection with LC3 mRFP GFP lentivirus and blockage of autophagosomelysosome fusion by BafA1 . Moreover gCTRP9 reestablished the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential suppressed ROS generation and reduced PA induced myocyte death . However the protective effect of gCTRP9 on the cardiac lipotoxicity was partly abolished by blockade of autophagy by autophagy related 5 siRNA indicating that the effect of gCTRP9 on cell survival is critically mediated through regulation of autophagy . Autophagy induction by gCTRP9 could be utilized as a potential therapeutic strategy against oxidative stress mediated damage in cardiomyocytes .

@highlight Impaired autophagic flux induced by palmitic acid contribute to cytotoxicity in NRCMs.
@highlight CTRP9 upregulates autophagy in NRCMs in the absence or presence of palmitic acid.
@highlight CTRP9 alleviated PA induced lipotoxicity in NRCMs.
@highlight ATG5 knockdown eliminated the protective effect of CTRP9 on the cardiac lipotoxicity.
