 Cardiac inflammation plays a critical role in the development of heart failure . Inflammation induced oxidative stress contributes to aberrant cardiac metabolism and mitochondrial function . GLP 1 receptor agonists are a type of blood glucose lowering agent typically used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes . Recent studies have convincingly shown that GLP 1 RAs possess beneficial effects in diabetes related cardiovascular complications . Liraglutide is a commonly used long acting agonist that shows promising cardioprotective benefits . In this study we investigated the protective role of Liraglutide in cultured cardiomyocytes . We found that HL 1 cardiomyocytes moderately expressed the GLP 1 receptor and co treatment with Liraglutide ameliorated IL 1 induced cellular ROS production and NADPH oxidase 4 expression . Furthermore we found that Liraglutide protected cardiomyocytes from IL 1 induced decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and reduced ATP production . Seahorse analysis revealed that Liraglutide mitigated IL 1 induced reduced basal and maximum respiration rates as well as spare respiration capacity . Additionally we found that Liraglutide alleviated IL 1 induced aberrant triglyceride accumulation and adiponectin secretion . Mechanistically we showed that Liraglutide ameliorated IL 1 induced phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC as well as the reduction in PGC 1 CPT 1 and DGAT1 . Finally through the study we demonstrated that the blockage of AMPK activity by Compound C abolished the ameliorative effect of Liraglutide on IL 1 induced repressed ATP production and triglyceride accumulation indicating that the action of Liraglutide was dependent on AMPK activation . In conclusion this study revealed the molecular mechanism of Liraglutide protection in cultured cardiomyocytes . The GLP 1 RA Liraglutide could have therapeutic implications by modulating cardiac inflammation .

@highlight Cardiac inflammation plays a significant role in heart failure.
@highlight Liraglutide ameliorates IL 1 induced mitochondrial dysfunction and metabolic disturbance.
@highlight AMPK activation is required for the action of Liraglutide.
