 The prenylated flavonoid icaritin is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma based on a solid array of preclinical and clinical data . The antitumor activity originates from the capacity of the drug to modulate several signaling effectors in cancer cells mainly the estrogen receptor splice variant ER36 the transcription factors STAT3 and NFB and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 . Recent studies have implicated additional components including different microRNAs the generation of reactive oxygen species and the targeting of sphingosine kinase 1 . ICT also engages the RAGE HMGB1 signaling route and modulates the apoptosis autophagy crosstalk to promote its anticancer activity . In addition ICT exerts profound changes on the tumor microenvironment to favor an immune response . Collectively these multiple biochemical and cellular characteristics confer to ICT a robust activity profile which can be exploited to treat HCC as well as other cancers including glioblastoma and onco hematological diseases such as chronic myeloid leukemia . This review provides an update of the pharmacological properties of ICT and its metabolic characteristics . It also addresses the design of derivatives including both natural products and synthetic molecules such as SNG1153 also in clinical trial . The prenylated flavonoid ICT deserves attention as a multifunctional natural product potentially useful to improve the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma .

@highlight The prenyl flavonoid icaritin is in clinical trial for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.
@highlight The estrogen receptor ER36 and sphingosine kinase 1 are icaritin targets.
@highlight The drug modulates multiple cellular pathways contributing to the anticancer activity.
@highlight The drug displays immune modulatory effects that reinforce the antitumor activity.
@highlight Structural analogs of icaritin have been designed such as SNG1153 in clinical trials.
