 The renin angiotensin aldosterone system is a hormonal system that has a critical role in maintaining the normotensive state and electrolyte balance of the organism . The RAAS also has an important influence in the development of various pathophysiological conditions especially those concerning the renal system cardiovascular system and hypertension . One of the consequences of the RAAS system is an increase in the generation of the reactive oxygen species that causes an increase in oxidative stress which may play a role in the development or exacerbation of such pathological conditions . Blocking this system at multiple points has been advantageous in the clinical management of these disorders . The key blockers that had gained predominant clinical use for such manifestations were angiotensin receptor blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . However their prolonged use caused a compensatory increase in renin and angiotensin I levels . The blocking of the system at the initial stages by blocking renin was of advantage to overcome such compensation . Such a renin blocker that gained widespread use was aliskiren . It is the first oral renin inhibitor that was approved for use in 2007 . Although the opinions are varied about the use and future of renin inhibitors as antihypertensive agents aliskiren has been well documented to have antioxidant effects . Aliskiren functions as an antioxidant by lowering the increase in ROS that are produced by the RAAS system at doses independent of decreasing the blood pressure . In the present review we discuss the antioxidant properties of aliskiren independent of its blood pressure lowering property .

@highlight RAAS may contribute to disease development through generation of oxidative stress.
@highlight Blocking RAAS can prevent such RAAS generated ROS.
@highlight Aliskiren is an antihypertensive agent that blocks RAAS.
@highlight RAAS blockage by aliskiren prevents ROS generation so reducing severity of disease.
@highlight Aliskiren may be used as antioxidant independent of its antihypertensive action.
