 Cisplatin induces acute renal failure in humans and mice.Tubular apoptosis necrosis and inflammation are the primary pathogenesis of cisplatin induced acute kidney injury . We previously reported that the depletion of Numb from proximal tubules exacerbates tubular cells apoptosis in cisplatin induced AKI however the role of Numb in tubular necrosis and renal inflammation in cisplatin induced AKI remains unclear . A mouse model of AKI was produced by cisplatin intraperitoneally injection in mice from proximal tubule specific depletion of Numb and their wild type littermates respectively . Renal Numb expression was determined by Western blotting . Renal morphological damage was examined by hematoxylin and eosin staining . Tubular necrosis was evaluated by histological study and the protein level of renal Mixed lineage kinase domain like protein which is a molecular marker of necrosis . Leukocyte infiltration and pro inflammatory cytokines was determined by immunostaining and quantitative real time PCR respectively.The protein level of Numb was dramatically decreased in kidneys of PT Nb KO mice compared with PT Nb WT mice . After cisplatin injection a significant increase of tubular injury score and the protein level of renal MLKL were detected in PT Nb KO mice compared with those in PT Nb WT . In addition the number of F4 80 positve and CD3 positive cells markers for macrophages and neutraphils respectively showed significantly increased in kidneys from PT Nb KO mice compared with those in PT Nb WT mice . Consistently the gene expression of pro inflammatory cytokines including TNF and MCP 1 in the kidneys was higher in PT Nb KO mice than those in PT Nb WT mice . Numb play additional protective role in cisplatin induced AKI through ameliorating tubular necrosis and renal inflammation besides attenuating cisplatin induced tubular apoptosis .

@highlight Cisplatin induces Acute kidney injury.
@highlight Necrosis and Inflammation are involved in Acute kidney injury.
@highlight Numb ameliorates Necrosis and Inflammation.
