 Mineral oils are widely applied in food production and processing and may contain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons . The PAHs that may be present in mineral oils are typically alkylated and have been barely studied . Metabolic oxidation of the aromatic ring is a key step to form DNA reactive PAH metabolites but may be less prominent for alkylated PAHs since alkyl substituents would facilitate side chain oxidation as an alternative . The current study investigates this hypothesis of preferential side chain oxidation at the cost of aromatic oxidation using naphthalene and a series of its alkyl substituted analogues as model compounds . The metabolism was assessed by measuring metabolite formation in rat and human liver microsomal incubations using UPLC and GC MS MS . The presence of an alkyl side chain markedly reduced aromatic oxidation for all alkyl substituted naphthalenes that were converted . 1 n Dodecyl naphthalene was not metabolized under the experimental conditions applied . With rat liver microsomes for 1 methyl 2 methyl 1 ethyl and 2 ethyl naphthalene alkyl side chain oxidation was preferred over aromatic oxidation . With human liver microsomes this was the case for 2 methyl and 2 ethyl naphthalene . It is concluded that addition of an alkyl substituent in naphthalene shifts metabolism in favor of alkyl side chain oxidation at the cost of aromatic ring oxidation . Furthermore alkyl side chains of 6 or more carbon atoms appeared to seriously hamper and reduce overall metabolism metabolic conversion being no longer observed with the C12 alkyl side chain . In summary alkylation of PAHs likely reduces their chances of aromatic oxidation and bioactivation .

@highlight Alkyl substitution of naphthalene shifts metabolism in favor of alkyl side chain oxidation at the cost of aromatic ring oxidation.
@highlight Metabolism and bioactivation of naphthalene is hampered when the alkyl substituent contains over 6 carbon atoms.
@highlight Alkylation of PAHs likely reduces their chances on aromatic oxidation and potential bioactivation.
