 General anaesthetics are some of the most widely used and essential therapeutic agents . However despite over a century of research the molecular mechanisms of general anaesthesia in the central nervous system remain elusive . Ketamine has been approved for use in general anaesthesia either alone or in combination with other medications . It is a superb drug for use in short term medical procedures that do not require skeletal muscle relaxation and it has approval for the induction of general anaesthesia as a pre anaesthetic to other general anaesthetic agents . However Several questions remain unsolved including the exact identification of the neural substrate of consciousness and its components the pharmacodynamic interactions between anaesthetic agents the mechanisms of cognitive alterations that follow an anaesthetic procedure the identification of an eventual unitary mechanism of anaesthesia induced alteration of consciousness the relationship between network effects and the biochemical targets of anaesthetic agents leading to difficulties in between studies comparisons . Thus the glutamate and dopamine systems play distinct roles in terms of neuronal signalling yet both have proposed to contribute significantly to the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases . Imaging of the glutamate system and other aspects of research on the dopamine system have produced less consistent findings potentially due to methodological limitations and the heterogeneity of the disorder . In this review we discuss the neural circuits through which the two systems interact and how their disruption may cause psychotic symptoms . We also summarize from a molecular perspective of mechanisms of action of ketamine as general anaesthetics on ligand gated ion channels mediated modulation of dopamine in the brain region .

@highlight General anaesthetics are some of the most widely used and essential therapeutic agents.
@highlight However despite over a century of research the molecular mechanisms of general anaesthesia in the CNS remain elusive.
@highlight Ketamine has been approved for use in general anaesthesia either alone or in combination with other medications.
