 Epigenetic variations can play remarkable roles in different normal and abnormal situations . Such variations have been shown to have a direct role in the pathogenesis of various diseases either through inhibition of tumor suppressor genes or increasing the expression of oncogenes . Enzymes involving in epigenetic machinery are the main actors in tuning the epigenetic based controls on gene expressions . Aberrant expression of these enzymes can trigger big chaos in the cellular gene expression networks and finally lead to cancer progression . This situation has been shown in different types of leukemia where high or low levels of an epigenetic enzyme are partly or highly responsible for the involvement or progression of a disease . DNA hypermethylation different histone modifications and aberrant miRNA expressions are three main epigenetic variations which have been shown to play a role in leukemia progression . Epigenetic based treatments now are considered as novel and effective therapies in order to decrease the abnormal epigenetic modifications in patient cells . Different epigenetic based approaches have been developed and tested to inhibit or reverse the unusual expression of epigenetic agents in leukemia . Acute myeloid leukemia the most prevalent acute leukemia in adults is anaggressive hematological malignancy arising in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells . With the exception of a few specific AML subtypes the mainstays of treatment have not significantly changed over the last 20 years and are still based on standard cytotoxic chemotherapy . In this review we will discuss the recent development of therapeutics specifically targeting these key epigenetic programs in AML describe their mechanism of action and present their current clinical development . Finally we will discuss the opportunities presented by epigenetically targeted therapy in AML and will highlight future challenges ahead for the AML community to ensure that this novel therapeutics are optimally translated into clinical practice and result in clinical improvement for AML patients .

@highlight In normal and pathogenic cases epigenetics may play an important role.
@highlight Epigenetic machinery mutations can have preventive therapeutic potential.
@highlight This outlines a basis for epigenetic therapies in AML.
