 Cancer metastasis and resistance for chemotherapeutic agent correlate with epithelial mesenchymal transition while ROS production also involves in the EMT process However how autophagy mediated ROS production affects EMT remains unclear . Previous study showed that DpdtC could induce ferritinophagy in HepG2 cell . To insight into more details that how ferritinophagy affects cellular feature the SGC 7901and BGC 823 gastric cancer cell lines were used . Interestingly DpdtC treatment resulted in EMT inhibition and was ROS dependent . Similar situation occurred in TGF 1 induced EMT model supporting that DpdtC was able to inhibit EMT . Next the ability of DpdtC in ferritinophagy induction was further evaluated . As expected DpdtC induced ferritinophagy in the absence and presence of TGF 1 . The correlation analysis revealed that an enhanced ferritinophagic flux contributed to the EMT inhibition . In addition ferritinophagy triggers Fenton reaction resulting in ROS production which give rise of p53 response thus the role of p53 was further investigated . DpdtC treatment resulted in upregulation of p53 but the addition of p53 inhibitor PFT could significantly neutralize the action of DpdtC on ferritinophagy induction and EMT inhibition . Furthermore autophagy inhibitors or NAC could counteract the action of DpdtC indicating that ferrtinophagy mediated ROS played an important role in the cellular events . In addition to upregulation of p53 its down stream targets AKT mTor were also downregulated supporting that DpdtC induced EMT inhibition was achieved through ferritinophagy ROS vicious cycle mediated p53 AKT mTor pathway . And the activation of ferritinophagic flux was the dominant driving force in action of DpdtC in gastric cancer cells .

@highlight Iron chelator DpdtC induced EMT inhibition.
@highlight DpdtC induced occurrence of ferritinophagy.
@highlight Creating vicious cycle between ferritinophagy and ROS production contributed to EMT inhibition.
@highlight DpdtbA induced p53 response resulted in downregulation of targeted genes and the EMT inhibition.
