 Ulcerative colitis is a chronic disease driven primarily by uncontrolled pervasive inflammatory responses affecting the colon and rectum . Currently available medications carry multiple detrimental adverse effects which have emphasized the mandatory need for safer and more efficient novel therapeutic alternatives . Melittin is the main constituent of bee venom and exhibits potent anti inflammatory properties . The antiulcerogenic effect of oral melittin was explored in the current study using the acetic acid induced colitis model . Increase in body weight and decrease in colon mass index were observed in the melittin group . Microscopically melittin ameliorated acetic acid induced histological damage . Melittin administration has efficiently amended the elevated levels of the cytokines tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 6 seen in the colitis group . This was accompanied by inhibition of the upstream signaling molecules Toll like receptor 4 tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor mitogen activated protein kinase 38 and nuclear factor kappaB in the melittin group . Moreover treatment with melittin resulted in marked decrease in colonic level of prostaglandin E2 together with the enzymes involved in its synthesis secretory phospholipase A2 and cyclooxygenase 2 . Additionally melittin has attenuated acetic acid induced oxidative stress as manifested by the significant diminishment in malondialdehyde as well as the increase in superoxide dismutase and reduced glutathione levels . Therefore melittin mitigated UC pathogenesis and could be considered as a potent and promising therapeutic alternative for UC treatment .

@highlight Melittin exerted potent antiulcerogenic effect in acetic acid induced colitis model.
@highlight Melittin amended the elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines.
@highlight Melittin inhibited the upstream inflammatory molecules TLR4 TRAF6 p38 MAPK and NF B.
@highlight Melittin reversed alterations in PGE2 and enzymes involved in its synthesis.
@highlight Melittin attenuated oxidative stress and ameliorated histological damage in colitis.
