 The isoquinoline 7 fluoro 1 3 diphenylisoquinoline 1 amine has been studied due to its multitarget properties such as modulation of GABAergic and glutamatergic systems antioxidant and anti inflammatory . This study investigated the contribution of oxidative stress nuclear factor like 2 heme oxygenase signaling and the cholinergic system to the anti amnesic action of FDPI in mice . Adult male Swiss mice received FDPI for 5 days the animals received scopolamine from day 35 . The vehicle control group was carried out . Afterward mice performed object recognition tests . Scopolamine induced amnesia and cholinergic dysfunction by increasing the acetylcholinesterase activity and content decreasing the muscarinic M1 receptor levels in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of mice . This study reveals that scopolamine altered oxidative stress parameters differently in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of mice . Whereas the prefrontal cortex was susceptible to oxidative stress none of the parameters evaluated was altered in the hippocampus of scopolamine treated mice . FDPI at doses of 10 and 25mg kg had an anti amnesic effect in the ORT tests . FDPI 10mg kg reversed the increase in the AChE activity and content oxidative stress parameters and modulated Nrf2 HO 1 signaling in the prefrontal cortex of scopolamine exposed mice . Pearson s correlation analyses reinforced the contribution of the prefrontal cortical cholinergic system oxidative stress as well as Nrf2 HO 1 signaling in the anti amnesic effect of FDPI . Considering FDPI effects on the hippocampus it was effective against the cholinergic dysfunction AChE activity and content and M1 receptor levels which collectively could contribute to its anti amnesic effect .

@highlight FDPI treatment was effective against memory impairment induced by scopolamine in mice.
@highlight FDPI modulated AChE and M1 receptor contents in mice exposed to scopolamine.
@highlight FDPI reversed oxidative stress induced by scopolamine in prefrontal cortex of mice.
@highlight Oxidative stress and Nrf2 HO 1 signaling contributed to the action of FDPI.
