 Usnic acid a dibenzofuran derivative found in many lichen species is reported to have anticancer activity against human gastric cancer . We investigated the molecular alterations associated with anticancer effects of usnic acid against human gastric adenocarcinoma AGS and gastric carcinoma SNU 1cells . Usnic acid treatment to these cells caused a significant increase in mitochondrial membrane depolarization and apoptotic cells . Apoptosis induction was accompanied by an increase in the ratio of Bax Bcl 2 expression and cleaved PARP . Usnic acid increased the comet tail length and tail DNA in alkaline comet assay indicating DNA double strand breaks which was also evidenced by an increase in H2A.X phosphorylation . The expression of DNA damage response proteins including DNA PKcs pATM Chk 2 and p53 were increased . Further N acetyl cysteine a known reactive oxygen species scavenger reversed the effects of usnic acid on expression of DNA damage response proteins and H2A.X phosphorylation . This reversal was also observed in comet assay in a time and dose dependent manner suggesting that usnic acid induced DNA damage was caused by ROS . In addition the non toxic concentrations of usnic acid inhibited colony forming potential of AGS cells indicating its anti proliferation activity . More importantly the concentration of usnic acid that caused significant death in gastric cancer cells did not show any considerable toxicity to normal human embryonic kidney HEK293cells human keratinocyte HaCaT cells and mouse primary gastric cells . Collectively these results for the first time demonstrated the selective apoptotic effect of usnic acid through ROS generation and DNA damage on human gastric cancer cells accompanied with upregulation of H2A.X phosphorylation DNA PKcs and p53 .

@highlight Usnic acid inhibited growth and survival of gastric cancer AGS and SNU 1cells.
@highlight The viability of normal cells including mouse primary gastric cells was unaffected.
@highlight It increased the Bax Bcl 2 ratio caspase activation and mitochondrial apoptosis.
@highlight Enhanced ROS formation ROS mediated DNA damage and p H2A.X Ser139 .
@highlight Increased the activation expression of ATM DNA PKcs Chk2 and p53 in cancer cells.
