 Embryonic studies have demonstrated the neurotoxic teratogenic and neurobehavioral toxicity of ethanol . Although multiple mechanisms may contribute to these effects oxidative stress has been described as the major damage pathway . In this regard natural antioxidants have the potential to counteract oxidative stress induced cellular damage . Therefore the present study aimed to investigate the potential protective role of 24 epibrassinolide a natural brassinosteroid with proved antioxidant properties in EtOH induced teratogenic effects during early zebrafish development . Embryos were exposed to 1 EtOH co exposed to 24 EPI and to 24 EPI alone for 24h . Following exposure biochemical evaluations were made at 26 hpf developmental analysis was made throughout the embryo larval period and behavioural responses were evaluated at 120 hpf . Exposure to 1 EtOH caused an increase in the number of malformations which were diminished by 24 EPI . In addition EtOH induced an accumulation of GSSG and consequent reduction of GSH GSSG ratio indicating the involvement of oxidative mechanisms in the EtOH induced effects . These were reverted by 24 EPI as proved by the GSSG levels and GSH GSSG ratio that returned to control values . Furthermore exposure to EtOH resulted in behavioural deficits at 120 hpf as observed by the disrupted response to an aversive stimulus suggesting the involvement of neurotoxic mechanisms . 24 EPI restored the behavioural deficits observed in a dose dependent manner . The absence of effects in the embryos exposed solely to 24 EPI showed its safety during the exposure period . In conclusion EtOH caused developmental teratogenicity and behavioural toxicity by inducing glutathione changes which were prevented by 24 EPI .

@highlight Zebrafish embryos were co exposed to 1 EtOH and 24 EPI at 2 hpf for 24 h.
@highlight Embryonic exposure to EtOH resulted in malformations which were ameliorated by 24 EPI.
@highlight EtOH exposure resulted in an increased accumulation of GSSG that was overturned by 24 EPI.
@highlight Exposure to EtOH resulted in aversive behaviour disruption of 5 dpf larvae which were restored by 24 EPI.
