 Ginsenoside Rg1 is an active ingredient extracted from the roots of ginsenoside and an naphthylisothiocyanate induced rat model of intrahepatic cholestasis was used to investigate the protective effect of Rg1 on cholestasis . 48 SD male rats were randomly divided into 6 groups control group model group UDCA group low dose Rg1 group medium dose Rg1 group and high dose Rg1 group . The model group the UDCA group and all the Rg1 group were then intragastrically administered with 80mg kg ANIT and the control group were given equal volume of olive oil . Then the pathological changes in liver tissue were observed the secretion of bile in the bile duct was measured and the biochemical markers in serum were quantified including alanine aminotransferase aspartate aminotransferase alkaline phosphatase glutamyl transfer peptidase and the content of total bilirubin direct bilirubin total bile acid . The contents of inflammatory mediators in serum were quantified including tumor necrosis factor interferon and interleukin 1 . The contents of superoxide dismutase malondialdehyde and glutathione peroxidase in liver homogenate were quantified . Expression of farnesoid X receptor transporters and metabolic enzymes in liver tissue was monitored . Rg1 treatment improved liver tissue pathological damage promoted bile secretion and significantly reduced serum levels of the intrahepatic cholestasis markers ALT AST ALP GTP TBIL DBIL and TBA . Rg1 increased the activity of SOD and GSH Px in liver homogenate while reducing the serum levels of MDA and inflammatory mediators . Rg1 also regulated the expression of FXR bile acid transporters and metabolic enzymes . Overall Rg1 alleviated liver injury by improving secretion of bile and normalizing the activity of enzymes in the serum . The protective mechanism appeared to be related to the activation of FXR and regulation of liver transporters and metabolic enzymes .

@highlight Ginsenoside Rg1 can alleviate ANIT induced intrahepatic cholestasis in rats.
@highlight Ginsenoside Rg1 can activate farnesoid X receptor.
@highlight Ginsenoside Rg1 can regulate transporters and metabolic enzymes.
