 Non alcoholic steatohepatitis has been associated with fibrosis that may progress to cirrhosis . The purpose of this study was to examine hepatocytes and perisinusoidal cells in liver biopsies of 3 families with non cirrhotic and cirrhotic NASH to determine unique histological changes during a period of 27 years from diagnosis . In this study hepatocytes stellate cells and Kupffer cells were analyzed using light and electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry with specific anti macrophage antibody staining of liver biopsies . Body mass index of all patients was over 28 and all viral metabolic markers were negative . Alcohol consumption was insignificant . In all liver biopsies diffuse non zonal macrovesicular steatosis involved 4070 of liver samples . The lobular hepatocytes showed prominent ballooning hepatocyte degeneration . No Mallory Denk hyaline bodies were observed in three of the patients . MDBs developed in ballooned hepatocytes of four individuals that also presented foci of lobular inflammation . The apoptotic bodies were stained by cytokeratin 18 . The trichrome stain revealed portal to portal bridging fibrosis . In one family there was a three fold increase in relative numbers of perisinusoidal macrophages in the older sister with NASH compared to livers of the younger siblings . The special finding in livers of patients with NASH was accumulation of groups of perisinusoidal macrophages which was not associated with focal necrosis . Perisinusoidal macrophages appear to accumulate in NASH . It is possible that collections of macrophages are a response to chronic portal endotoxemia or lipotoxic activation of immuno mediators . The persistent activation of these macrophages could lead to the chronic release of pro inflammatory cytokines and contribute to chronic inflammation fibrosis and cirrhosis leading to HCC .

@highlight Non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD is the liver manifestation of the metabolic syndrome.
@highlight NAFLD is the leading cause of chronic liver disease.
@highlight Non alcoholic steatohepatitis NASH leads to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma HCC .
@highlight NAFLD leading to HCC was assessed in three families.
@highlight The histology includes giant lipid droplets fibrosis and perisinusoidal macrophage.
