 Evidence has shown that sevoflurane plays a protective role in acute lung injury due to its anti inflammatory and apoptotic regulating activity . Nevertheless the mechanism of sevoflurane is still not completely understood . This study intends to discuss the mechanism of sevoflurane on ALI and the possible mechanisms involved . ALI model of rats was established through intravenous injection of endotoxin lipopolysaccharide . microRNA 34a 3p and signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 expression in lung tissues of ALI rats were detected . The optimal inhaled concentration of sevoflurane was screened and then the modeled rats were injected with miR 34a 3p inhibitors overexpressed STAT1 and inhaled 1.0 Minimum Alveolar Concentration sevoflurane to determine mean arterial pressure of rats wet weight dry weight ratio and myeloperoxidase activity oxidative stress and inflammation related factors in lung tissues of rats along with lung cell viability and apoptosis . MiR 34a 3p was downregulated while STAT1 was upregulated in ALI rats . Sevoflurane of 1.0 MAC was selected as the optimal inhalation concentration . Sevoflurane increased MAP at T3 and reduced MPO activity alleviated pathological damage suppressed apoptosis oxidative stress and inflammation and induced cell viability in lung tissues of ALI rats . Down regulated miR 34a 3p or up regulated STAT reversed the functions of sevoflurane on ALI rats . Collectively we demonstrate that sevoflurane reduces inflammatory factor expression increases lung cell viability and inhibits lung cell apoptosis in ALI through upregulation of miR 34a 3p and downregulation of STAT1 which provides new clues for ALI treatment .

@highlight MiR 34a 3p was downregulated while STAT1 was upregulated in ALI rats.
@highlight Sevoflurane elevates miR 34a 3p and downregulates STAT1 in lung tissues of ALI rats.
@highlight Sevoflurane reduces MDA level and elevates SOD activity in lung tissues of ALI rats.
@highlight Sevoflurane reduces inflammatory factor expression in ALI.
@highlight Sevoflurane inhibits lung cell apoptosis in ALI by regulating miR 34a 3p and STAT1.
