 To investigate the against Drug induced liver injury ingredients and their functional mechanisms in S. Chinensis Fructus . Liquid chromatograph mass spectrometry analysis was performed on S. Chinensis Fructus extrac . The Components Target Disease network model was constructed by network pharmacology based approaches . String analysis was performed to reveal enrichment of these target proteins protein protein interactions pathways and related diseases . And experiment of APAP induced drug induced liver injury was to be verified . Cytoscape was used to determine the potential protein targets for these components in S. Chinensis Fructus indicating that 17 against Drug induced liver injury compounds in S. Chinensis Fructus regulate 52 diabetes related proteins in 15 signal pathways and involve 14 core key targets . Verification experiment results that S. Chinensis Fructus prevented the elevation of serum biochemical parameters including aspartate aminotransferase alanine aminotransferase purine nucleoside phosphorylase and alkaline phosphatase against acute liver failure . Additionally S. Chinensis Fructus reduced the content of malondialdehyde increased the levels of the Superoxide dismutase and Glutathione and inhibited the production of proinflammatory cytokines in APAP induced hepatotoxicity . The mechanisms of S. Chinensis Fructus against Drug induced liver injury were involved in the regulation of multiple targets especially affecting the ErbB signaling pathways . The active ingredients of S. Chinensis Fructus may play a role against Drug induced liver injury by participating in the regulation of inflammatory factors oxidative stress .

@highlight The blood components and network pharmacology were combined to predict targets.
@highlight 17 active ingredients 15 signal pathways and 14 core key targets were predicted.
@highlight The S. Chinensis Fructus SCF against DILI were involved in the ErbB pathways.
@highlight Taking ALP and others as indicators the pharmacodynamics of SCF was validated.
@highlight The SCF play a role against DILI by the inflammatory factors oxidative stress.
