 Colchicine site antimitotic agents typically suffer from low aqueous solubilities and are formulated as phosphate prodrugs of phenolic groups . These hydroxyl groups are the aim of metabolic transformations leading to resistance . There is an urgent need for more intrinsically soluble analogues lacking these hydroxyl groups . The 3 4 5 trimethoxyphenyl ring of combretastatin A 4 is a liability in terms of solubility but it is considered essential for high cytotoxic and tubulin polymerization inhibitory activity . We have synthesized 36 new analogues of combretastatin A 4 replacing the trimethoxyphenyl moiety with more polar pyridine based moieties measured their aqueous solubility and studied their anti proliferative effects against 3 human cancer cell lines . We show here that pyridine rings can be successful replacements for the trimethoxyphenyl ring resulting in potent and more soluble analogues . The more straightforward replacement a 2 6 dimethoxypyridine ring led to inactive analogues but a 2 methoxy 6 methylsulfanylpyridine moiety led to active analogues when combined with different B rings . This replacement led to potent cytotoxic activity against sensitive human cancer cell lines due to tubulin inhibition as shown by cell cycle analysis confocal microscopy and tubulin polymerization inhibitory activity studies . Cell cycle analysis also showed apoptotic responses following treatment . Docking studies suggested binding at the colchicine site of tubulin and provided a good agreement with the observed SAR . A 2 methoxy 6 methylsulfanylpyridine moiety is a good trimethoxyphenyl ring replacement for the development of new colchicine site ligands .

@highlight Replacement of the 3 4 5 trimethoxyphenyl by 2 methylsulfanyl 6 methoxy 4 pyridyl leads to active analogues.
@highlight 2 6 Dimethoxypyridine analogues are inactive.
@highlight Solubility improvement.
@highlight Microtubule disruption in cells leads to G
@highlight  M cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis.
@highlight Binding at the colchicine site of tubulin.
