 Epilepsy is a complex and multifactorial neurodegenerative disease described by recurrent seizures . Oxidative stress and dysregulation of brain derived neurotrophic factor and vascular endothelial growth factor are critical factors for the development of epilepsy . Daidzin is well known for its effective anti inflammatory and antioxidant potential for centuries . The present study was focused on exploring the anti epileptic potential of daidzin in the pentylenetetrazole induced mice model . Daidzin was administered in the acute study and the dose was optimized . Pretreatment with daidzin remarkably reduced the severity of epileptogenesis in a dose dependent manner . Moreover chronic epilepsy was induced in mice by administration of PTZ every alternative day for 21 days . Results demonstrated that daidzin significantly prevented epileptogenesis and reversed histopathological changes in the hippocampus . It remarkably improved antioxidant levels while decreased MDA and nitrite production in the brain . It remarkably improved the expressions of heme oxygenase 1 and BDNF while reduced the expression of VEGF . It remarkably prevented the neuronal apoptosis in the brain tissue . Additionally spectroscopic analysis such as FTIR and DSC revealed that daidzin remarkably prevented PTZ induced protein damage . HPLC UV spectrophotometry results demonstrated that there was no peak of aglycone daidzin in the brain sample which specify that the anticonvulsant effect of the compound is due to its direct entry into the brain tissue . Moreover the molecular docking results showed that daidzin possesses a better binding affinity for ALDH2 estrogen receptor P13k AKT2 mTORC1 and HIF 1 proteins . Taken together the results of the present study showed that daidzin has remarkable neuroprotective and anti epileptic properties through modulation of oxidative stress BDNF VEGF and apoptotic signaling in the brain tissue of PTZ kindled mice .

@highlight Daidzin ameliorated seizure scores in the PTZ kindled mice.
@highlight Daidzin suppressed the oxidative stress and BBB permeability in the PTZ kindled mice.
@highlight Daidzin prevented the histopathological alteration associated with the seizure.
@highlight Daidzin increased the expression of BDNF HO 1 while reduced the expression of VEGF.
@highlight Daidzin inhibited the protein and DNA damage in the PTZ kindled mice.
