 Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose also known as Hypromellose is a traditional pharmaceutical excipient widely exploited in oral sustained drug release matrix systems . The choice of numerous viscosity grades and molecular weights available from different manufacturers provides a great variability in its physical chemical properties and is a basis for its broad successful application in pharmaceutical research development and manufacturing . The excellent mucoadhesive properties of HPMC predetermine its use in oromucosal delivery systems including mucoadhesive tablets and films . HPMC also possesses desirable properties for formulating amorphous solid dispersions increasing the oral bioavailability of poorly soluble drugs . Printability and electrospinnability of HPMC are promising features for its application in 3D printed drug products and nanofiber based drug delivery systems . Nanoparticle based formulations are extensively explored as antigen and protein carriers for the formulation of oral vaccines and oral delivery of biologicals including insulin respectively . HPMC being a traditional pharmaceutical excipient has an irreplaceable role in the development of new pharmaceutical technologies and new drug products leading to continuous manufacturing processes and personalized medicine . This review firstly provides information on the physical chemical properties of HPMC and a comprehensive overview of its application in traditional oral drug formulations . Secondly this review focuses on the application of HPMC in modern pharmaceutical technologies including spray drying hot melt extrusion 3D printing nanoprecipitation and electrospinning leading to the formulation of printlets nanoparticle microparticle and nanofiber based delivery systems for oral and oromucosal application .

@highlight HPMC is a traditional pharmaceutical excipient with favorable safety profile.
@highlight Mucoadhesive properties and controlled release in oral and oromucosal formulations.
@highlight HPMC inhibit drug crystallization in amorphous solid dispersions.
@highlight Applicable to nanoprecipitation hot met extrusion 3D printing or electrospinning.
@highlight HPMC is well suited for continuous manufacturing technology.
