 Prenatal phthalate chemicals may have adverse effects on brain development by various mechanisms including oxidant damage . However birth cohort findings have been conflicting . This study aimed to investigate the interplay between maternal prenatal phthalate levels infant genetic vulnerability to oxidative stress and child neurodevelopment and examine combined putative oxidant exposures . In a population based birth cohort of 1064 women with prenatal recruitment in Victoria Australia maternal urine was collected at 36 weeks of pregnancy and phthalate metabolite concentrations measured . An unweighted genetic score for oxidative stress was made using a candidate gene approach . Cognition was assessed using the BAYLEY III at two years . Parents completed questionnaires for doctor diagnosed autism spectrum disorder ASD traits and child inattention hyperactivity . Analyses included multiple linear and logistic regression . Higher prenatal phthalate levels and a higher oxidative stress genetic score were each associated with subsequent ASD . Several oxidative stress related SNPs modified the association between prenatal phthalates and ASD and other outcomes . Consistent patterns were evident across gene score phthalate combinations for cognition ASD ASD traits and inattention hyperactivity . Other putative oxidant factors such as prenatal smoking further increased risk . Prenatal phthalate levels and infant oxidative stress related genetic vulnerability are associated with adverse neurodevelopment . Combined exposures are important . Current recommendations and regulation on maternal phthalate exposure during pregnancy require re evaluation .

@highlight Early oxidant exposures may increase the risk of autism spectrum disorder ASD .
@highlight The composite impact of putative oxidant environmental and genetic factors needs to be considered.
@highlight Prenatal phthalates and oxidative stress genetic score were associated with subsequent ASD.
@highlight Combined effects were evident across four neurodevelopmental outcomes.
@highlight Chemical exposure during pregnancy is a modern problem requiring ongoing attention.
