 The conventional active targeting nano chemotherapy suffers from poor tumor tissue penetration and non negligible toxicity due to the size ligand dilemmas and insufficient target selectivity . In this report a stimuli responsive size adaptable and ligand sheddable drug delivery system combined with two step strategy of biotin avidin system was designed to seek a balance between tumor targeting and penetration as well as to self scavenge the nonresponsive nanocarriers in normal tissues . This DDS was composed of multi seed polymeric liposomes with asulacrine loaded micelles as seeds in their aqueous cavities . The shell of such liposomes was modified with MMP 9 cleavable polymer polypeptide functionalized with the tumor targeting ligand biotin . ASL BIO MPL could disintegrate into mixture of irregularly shaped liposomes and scattered tiny micelles after incubation with MMP 9 . The fluorescence labeled BIO MPL could travel to the center of the 4T1 breast tumor spheroids under the action of MMP 9 possibly benefited from the relay of released tiny micelles . Conversely neither the biotin modified micelles nor non MMP 9 responsive multi seed liposomes could penetrate into the spheroids possibly due to the potent binding site barrier of biotin and large size respectively . In tumor bearing mice ASL BIO MPL exhibited the strongest drug penetrability and thus the optimal inhibition of tumor growth compared to other formulations . Following administration of avidin with a rational dosage regimen the number of apoptotic cells in normal tissues induced by ASL BIO MPL reduced without affecting their targeting effect suggesting the followed administration of adivin could scavenge the DDS in non target site . Overall the size ligand adapting MPL system combined with two step strategy of biotin avidin may provide potential avenues for nanocarriers to enhance deep tumor tissue targeting and protect normal tissues .

@highlight A stimuli responsive size adaptable and ligand sheddable drug delivery system
@highlight Tumor penetration by the relay of released micelles from the multistage nanocarriers
@highlight Biotin avidin system to scavenge the nonresponsive nanocarriers in normal tissues
@highlight BIO MPL with avidin scavenging exhibited the best tumor penetration and tissue safety.
