 Many plant foods are rich sources of rutin a flavonoid with many biological activities and health benefits . Exposure to cadmium has been implicated in neurotoxicity and cognitive dysfunction in animal models . However there is a dearth of information on the effect of rutin on the cadmium bioavailability in the brain of rats exposed to cadmium . Thus the present study investigated the therapeutic efficacy of rutin in an animal model of cognitive impairment via alterations of cadmium bioavailability in cadmium exposed rats . Animals were divided into six groups group 1 served as control groups 2 and 3 are normal rats received 25 and 50 mg kg of rutin respectively group 4 received cadmium while groups 5 and 6 are cadmium exposed rats treated with 25 and 50 mg kg rutin respectively via oral administration for 21 days . Rutin was administered 30 min after cadmium administration each day . The spatial working memory of the exposed and treated rats was assessed using Morris water maze and Y Maze tasks . Furthermore the residual level of cadmium ion in the brain of the rats was estimated . The cholinesterase activities and nitric oxide level were determined . Besides the level of oxidative stress markers was assessed . Results revealed that rutin significantly reduced cadmium bioavailability in the brain of cadmium exposed rats . Moreso cadmium increased cholinesterase activities and level of oxidative stress markers in the brain with a concomitant decrease in nitric oxide level . However treatment with rutin decreased cholinesterase activities and the level of oxidative stress markers in cadmium exposed rats . Also rutin improved spatial working memory and learning processes as revealed by Morris water maze and Y Maze tasks . Conclusively rutin could be considered to possess cognitive enhancing properties possibly through alterations of cadmium bioavailability in the brain of cadmium exposed rats .

@highlight Cadmium altered neurobehavioral parameters in Wistar rats.
@highlight Rutin altered cadmium bioavailability in the brain of cadmium exposed rats.
@highlight Rutin enhanced cognitive behavior nitric oxide and antioxidant status in Wistar rats exposed to cadmium.
@highlight Rutin lowered acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activities in Wistar rats exposed to cadmium.
