 Juvenile rats display rough and tumble playing with conspecifics and produce 22 and 50 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations . The 22 kHz USV is considered to reflect negative emotionality such as anxiety fear and distress whereas the 50 kHz USV is considered to reflect positive emotionality such as joy happiness and satisfaction . USV is a sensitive tool for measuring emotionality in socially interactive situations . However effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the acoustic characteristics of play fighting induced USVs have remained unclear . In Experiment I we recorded USVs produced by prenatally ethanol exposed rats during play fighting on postnatal days 4042 and examined the acoustic characteristics of negative and positive emotion induced USVs . In Experiment II we examined the anxiety levels through elevated plus maze testing on PNDs 3739 and frequencies of playful attacks on PNDs 4345 in ethanol exposed rats . Ethanol was administered to pregnant rats in three gradually increased concentrations between gestational days 8 and 20 . From GDs 14 to 20 ethanol containing tap water at concentrations of 30 and 15 was administered to the high and low ethanol groups respectively . Tap water without added ethanol was given to the control group . On PNDs 4042 three rats from the same sex and same ethanol concentration group but from different litters were placed together into a playing cage for play fighting . The high ethanol male triads displayed elevations of 2035 kHz USVs reflecting negative emotionality and reductions of 4570 kHz USVs reflecting positive emotionality compared with both the low ethanol and control male triads . The high ethanol male triads had prominent elevations of 2035 kHz USVs with durations longer than 200 ms whereas the control male triads did not produce such 2035 kHz USVs at all . There was no difference in USV acoustic characteristics among the female triads . In addition the high ethanol male rats exhibited greater anxiety levels and less frequencies of play fighting than the control male rats . Altogether we conclude that prenatal exposure to ethanol enhances negative emotionality such as anxiety and accordingly 2035 kHz USVs reflecting negative emotionality are produced with a marked decrease in play fighting suggesting difficulties in social interactions with conspecifics .

@highlight Prenatal high ethanol exposure enhances the negative emotionality in juvenile rats.
@highlight Play fighting induced 2035 kHz negative ultrasonic vocalizations USVs are elevated in high ethanol males.
@highlight Reductions in positive 4570 kHz USVs are evident in high ethanol males.
@highlight High ethanol males exhibit decreased play attacks and increased anxiety like behavior.
