 Antigen specific immunotherapy has been proposed as an alternative treatment strategy for type 1 diabetes . ASI aims to induce a regulatory rather than stimulatory immune response in order to reduce or prevent autoimmune mediated cell destruction thus preserving endogenous insulin production . The abundance of immunocompetent antigen presenting cells within the skin makes this organ an attractive target for immunotherapies . Microneedles have been proposed as a suitable drug delivery system to facilitate intradermal delivery of autoantigens in a minimally invasive manner . However studies to date have employed single peptide autoantigens which would restrict ASI to patients expressing specific Human Leukocyte Antigen molecules thus stratifying the patient population . This study aims to develop for the first time an intradermal MN delivery system to target proinsulin a large multi epitope protein capable of inducing tolerance in a heterogeneous population of T1D patients to the immunocompetent cells of the skin . An optimized three component coating formulation containing proinsulin a diluent and a surfactant facilitated uniform and reproducible coating of 30g of the active pharmaceutical ingredient on a stainless steel MN array consisting of thirty 500m projections . When applied to a murine model these proinsulin coated MNs efficiently punctured the skin and after a limited insertion time a significant proportion of the therapeutic payload was reproducibly delivered into the local tissue . Localized delivery of proinsulin in non obese diabetic mice using the coated MN system stimulated significantly greater proliferation of adoptively transferred antigen specific CD8

@highlight Proinsulin is a multi epitope immunotherapy candidate for type 1 diabetes.
@highlight Steel microneedle arrays were uniformly coated with 30g of proinsulin.
@highlight A high proportion 86 of coated proinsulin was delivered to the local tissue.
@highlight Antigen specific T cells proliferated in local lymph nodes in response.
@highlight Microneedle delivery resulted in greater proliferation than intradermal injection.
