 Bacterial cell wall endotoxins i.e . lipopolysaccharides are some of the original compounds shown to evoke the classic signs of systemic inflammation innate immune response and neuroinflammation . The term neuroinflammation often is used to infer the elaboration of proinflammatory mediators by microglia elicited by neuronal targeted activity . However it also is possible that the microglia are responding to vasculature through several signaling mechanisms . Microglial activation relative to the vasculature in the hippocampus and parietal cortex was determined after an acute exposure of a single subcutaneous injection of 2 mg kg LPS . Antibodies to allograft inflammatory factor were used to track and quantify morphological changes in microglia . Immunostaining of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 was used to visualize vasculature in the forebrain and glial acidic fibrillary protein to visualize astrocytes . Neuroinflammation and other aspects of neurotoxicity were evaluated histologically at 3 h 6 h 12 h 24 h 3 d and 14 d following LPS exposure . LPS did not cause neurodegeneration as determined by Fluoro Jade C labeling . Also there were no signs of mouse IgG leakage from brain vasculature due to LPS . Some changes in microglia size occurred at 6 h but by 12 h microglial activation had begun with the combined soma and proximal processes size increasing significantly . At 24 h almost all the microglia soma and proximal processes in the hippocampus parietal cortex and thalamus were closely associated with the vasculature and had increased almost 2.0 fold in size . In many areas where microglia were juxtaposed to vasculature astrocytic endfeet appeared to be displaced . The microglial activation had subsided slightly by 3 d with microglial size 1.6 fold that of control . We hypothesize that acute LPS activation can result in vascular mediated microglial responses through several mechanisms 1 binding to Cd14 and Tlr4 receptors on microglia processes residing on vasculature 2 damaging vasculature and causing the release of cytokines and 3 possibly astrocytic endfeet damage resulting in cytokine release . These acute responses may serve as an adaptive mechanism to exposure to circulating LPS where the microglia surround the vasculature . This could further prevent the pathogen circulating in blood from entering the brain . However diverting microglial interactions away from synaptic remodeling and other types of microglial interactions with neurons may have adverse effects on neuronal function .

@highlight Subcutaneous injection of 2 mg kg LPS resulted in the activation of 55 to 65 of the microglia present in the hippocampus and cortex within 24 h.
@highlight However none of the microglia had phagocytic type morphology that is normally seen in areas of neurodegeneration and no neurodegeneration was observed in brain via Fluorojade C labeling.
@highlight The activated microglial soma and proximal enlarged processes became elongated and more closely associated with brain vasculature.
@highlight We hypothesize that by forming a much closer associations with vasculature the activated microglia would be more effective in preventing bacterial entry into the brain.
