 The interaction of drug delivery systems with tissues is key for their application . An example is drug carriers targeted to endothelial barriers which can be transported to intra endothelial compartments or transcellularly released at the tissue side . Although carrier targeting valency influences this process the mechanism is unknown . We studied this using polymer nanocarriers targeted to intercellular adhesion molecule 1 an endothelial surface glycoprotein whose expression is increased in pathologies characterized by inflammation . A bell shaped relationship was found between NC targeting valency and the rate of transcytosis where high and low NC valencies rendered less efficient transcytosis rates than an intermediate valency formulation . In contrast an inverted bell shape relationship was found for NC valency and lysosomal trafficking rates . Data suggested a model where NC valency plays an opposing role in the two sub processes involved in transcytosis NC binding uptake depended directly on valency and exocytosis detachment was inversely related to this parameter . This is because the greater the avidity of the NC receptor interaction the more efficient uptake becomes but NC receptor detachment post transport is more compromised . Cleavage of the receptor at the basolateral side of endothelial cells facilitated NC transcytosis likely by helping NC detachment post transport . Since transcytosis encompasses both sets of events the full process finds an optimum at the intersection of these inverted relationships explaining the bell shaped behavior . NCs also trafficked to lysosomes from the apical side and additionally from the basolateral side in the case of high valency NCs which are slower at detaching from the receptor . This explains the opposite behavior of NC valency for transcytosis

@highlight Brain endothelial cells traffic anti ICAM nanocarriers to lysosomes and transcytosis and nanocarrier targeting valency impacts both processes in an inverted manner.
@highlight Slow binding and uptake limit transcytosis of low valency nanocarrier.
@highlight Slow detachment from the endothelium after transcytosis limit high valency nanocarriers.
@highlight Intermediate valency nanocarriers meet a balance between both processes resulting in enhanced transcytosis.
@highlight Thus intermediate valency nanocarriers deliver greater amounts of a therapeutic enzyme payload to both brain endothelial cells in culture and the brain in a mouse model.
