 Ductal Carcinoma In Situ represents a significant fraction of all newly diagnosed breast cancer cases and if left untreated a significant fraction of patients will progress to invasive disease . Surgery is the only treatment option . Ciclopirox an FDA approved antifungal drug has exhibited promising antitumor activity by down regulating the expression of vital antiapoptotic cellular proteins and inhibiting the genetic expression of several oncogenic pathways . In this study the feasibility of using nanoscale delivery systems to control release and prolong mammary tissue persistence of a lipophilic metal complex of CPX and Zinc were prepared using an evaporative nanoprecipitation ultra sonication method . Flash nanoprecipitation was used to prepare PLGA nanoparticles loaded with CPX CPX Zn complex was successfully synthesized and characterized by several spectral analyses . CPX release was slowed from the CPX Zn NS and further slowed by incorporating CPX Zn into PLGA NPs as compared to the CPX NS with release half times following the order CPX NS CPX Zn NS CPX Zn NP . Intraductal CPX NS administration was dose and time dependent in suppressing tumor initiation suggesting prolonged mammary exposure may improve efficacy . In the second arm mammary tissue persistence of CPX followed the rank order CPX NS CPX Zn NS CPX Zn NP at 6h and 48h post administration . Prolonged mammary CPX exposure was highly correlated to improved efficacy . Prolonged CPX tissue persistence attributed to slower release from the zinc complex and the PLGA NPs resulted in a 5 fold dose reduction compared to the CPX NS . The current results demonstrate that slowing drug release in the mammary duct after intraductal administration overcomes the rapid ductal clearance of CPX prolongs mammary tissue persistence improves efficacy against DCIS lesions in vivo and requires 5 fold less CPX to achieve equivalent efficacy . The studies also provide a strategic path forward for developing a locally administered drug delivery system for treating DCIS for which no primary chemotherapy option is available .

@highlight CPX formulated into nanosuspensions and nanoparticles by utilizing a metal complexation approach.
@highlight Sustained release of drug from nanoformulations.
@highlight Prolonged mammary persistence in an orthotopic rat cancer model.
@highlight Good correlation between sustained release prolonged mammary persistence and in vivo efficacy.
