 Gulf War Illness manifests a multitude of symptoms including neurological and immunological and approximately a third of the 19901991 Gulf War veterans suffer from it . This study sought to characterize the acute neurochemical and neuroinflammatory profiles of two established GWI animal models and examine the potential modulatory effects of the novel immunotherapeutic Lacto N fucopentaose III . In Model 1 male C57BL 6J mice were treated for 10 days with pyridostigmine bromide and permethrin . In Model 2 a separate cohort of mice were treated for 14 days with PB and N N Diethyl methylbenzamide plus corticosterone via drinking water on days 814 and diisopropylfluorophosphate on day 15 . LNFPIII was administered concurrently with GWI chemicals treatments . Brain and spleen monoamines and hippocampal inflammatory marker expression were examined by respectively HPLC ECD and qPCR 6h post treatment cessation . Serotonergic and dopaminergic dyshomeostasis caused by GWI chemicals was apparent in multiple brain regions primarily in the nucleus accumbens and hippocampus for both models . Splenic levels of 5 HT and norepinephrine were also disrupted by GWI chemicals . LNFPIII treatment prevented many of the GWI chemicals induced monoamine alterations . Hippocampal inflammatory cytokines were increased in both models but the magnitude and spread of inflammation was greater in Model 2 LNFPIII was anti inflammatory more so in the apparently milder Model 1 . Overall in both models GWI chemicals led to monoamine disbalance and neuroinflammation . LNFPIII co treatment prevented many of these disruptions in both models which is indicative of its promise as a potential GWI therapeutic .

@highlight Gulf War Illness GWI chemicals effects in two different rodent models were tested.
@highlight GWI chemicals caused broad and model brain region specific monoamine disruption.
@highlight Neuroinflammation was present in the ventral hippocampus in both GWI models.
@highlight Splenic serotonin was disrupted in both GWI models but norepinephrine only in one.
@highlight LNFPIII a novel immunotherapeutic reduced or prevented effects of GWI treatments.
