 The skin is an attractive tissue target for vaccination as it is readily accessible and contains a dense population of antigen presenting and immune accessory cells . Microneedle arrays are emerging as an effective tool for in situ engineering of the cutaneous microenvironment to enable diverse immunization strategies . Here we present novel dissolving undercut MNAs and demonstrate their application for effective multicomponent cutaneous vaccination . The MNAs are composed of micron scale needles featuring pyramidal heads supported by undercut stem regions with filleted bases to ensure successful skin penetration and retention during application . Prior efforts to fabricate dissolving undercut microstructures were limited and required complex and lengthy processing and assembly steps . In the current study we strategically combine three dimensional laser lithography an emerging micro additive manufacturing method with unique geometric capabilities and nanoscale resolution and micromolding with favorable materials . This approach enables reproducible production of dissolving MNAs with undercut microneedles that can be tip loaded with multiple biocargos such as antigen and adjuvant . The resulting MNAs fulfill the geometric and mechanical strength requirements for failure free penetration of human and murine skin to simultaneously deliver multicomponent vaccines to the same cutaneous microenvironment . Cutaneous vaccination of mice using these MNAs induces more potent antigen specific cellular and humoral immune responses than those elicited by traditional intramuscular injection . Together the unique geometric features of these undercut MNAs and the associated manufacturing strategy which is compatible with diverse drugs and biologics could enable a broad range of non cutaneous and cutaneous drug delivery applications including multicomponent vaccination .

@highlight Combines 3D laser lithography with nanoscale resolution and micromolding to manufacture dissolving microneedle arrays MNAs 
@highlight Microneedles with undercut geometries can be directly removed from flexible molds simplifying their fabrication
@highlight First demonstration of dissolving undercut MNAs incorporating antigen plus adjuvant vaccine components
@highlight MNAs simultaneously deliver antigen and adjuvant to the same cutaneous microenvironment in both human and murine skin
@highlight OVA Poly I C MNAs elicit more potent cellular and humoral immunity than traditional intramuscular vaccination
