 Susceptibility to xenobiotic exposures is variable . One factor that might account for this is the microbiome which encompasses all microorganisms their encoded genes and associated functions that colonize a host organism . Microbiota harbor the capacity to affect the toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics of xenobiotic exposures . The neurotoxicological effects of environmental chemicals may be modified by intestinal microbes via the microbiota gut brain axis . This is a complex bi directional signaling pathway between intestinal microbes and the host nervous system . As a model organism zebrafish are extremely well placed to illuminate mechanisms by which microbiota modify the developmental neurotoxicity of environmental chemicals . The goal of this review article is to examine the microbiota gut brain axis in a toxicological context specifically focusing on the strengths and weaknesses of the zebrafish model for the investigation of interactions between xenobiotic agents and host associated microbes . Previous studies describing the relationship between intestinal microbes and host neurodevelopment will be discussed . From a neurotoxicological perspective studies utilizing zebrafish to assess links between neurotoxicological outcomes and the microbiome are emphasized . Overall there are major gaps in our understanding the mechanisms by which microbiota interact with xenobiotics to cause or modify host neurotoxicity . In this review we demonstrate that zebrafish are an ideal model system for studying the complex relationship between chemical exposures microorganisms and host neurotoxicological outcomes .

@highlight Zebrafish is a powerful
@highlight system for the investigation of chemical exposures microorganisms and host neurotoxicological outcomes.
@highlight Xenobiotic exposure can cause dysbiosis and microbiota can biotrans form environmental chemicals into products with unknown toxicity profiles.
@highlight It is less clear whether dysbiosis or toxicokinetic interactions lead to host toxicity i.e. Toxicodynamic interactions .
@highlight Comparison of colonized and axenic i.e. microbe free zebrafish can reveal mechanisms by which the microbiome modifies the developmental neurotoxicity of environmental chemicals.
