 Nanotechniques show significant merits in terms of improving the oral bioavailability of poorly water soluble drugs . However the mechanisms behind are not clear yet . For instance what is the contribution of free drug released during nanogranule transcytosis as well as the impact of drug transporter and chylomicron To address these issues sorafenib nanogranules were prepared as model by the high gravity antisolvent precipitation method which approaches to practical mass production . Then a multiaspect study on the transcytosis mechanism of SFN NGs was conducted in Caco 2 cells and rats including paracellular transport endocytosis intracellular trafficking transmembrane pathway as well as the involvement of transporter and chylomicron . Pharmacokinetics in rats demonstrated an obvious superiority of SFN NGs in oral absorption and lymphatic transfer over SFN crude drugs . Different from free SFN SFN NGs could be internalized in cells in early stage by caveolin lipid raft or clathrin induced endocytosis and transported intactly through the polarized cell monolayers . While in late stage transporter mediated transport of free SFN began to play a vital role on the transmembrane of SFN NGs . No paracellular transport of SFN NGs was found and the trafficking of SFN NGs was affected by the pathway of ER Golgi complexes . Surprisedly the intracellular free SFN was the main source of transmembrane for SFN NGs which was entrapped into chylomicrons and then secreted into the extracellular space . Generally the findings in current study may shed light on the absorption mechanism of oral nanoformulations .

@highlight Both vesicle transport and molecule transport contribute to the transcytosis enhancement of SFN NGs.
@highlight OATP C play an important role on the transcytosis of SFN NGs in late stage.
@highlight Chylomicron pathway accounts for most of the transcytosis of SFN NGs.
@highlight Drugs intrinsic transport characteristics always influence the transcytosis of drug nanoparticles.
