 Metronidazole a nitroimidazole derived antibiotic used to treat many bacterial infections is reported to penetrate the blood brain barrier after long term administration resulting into neuronal toxicity . Further quercetin a polyphenol flavonoid is reported to exhibit neuroprotective activity but its pharmacodynamics interaction against metronidazole induced neurotoxicity . Therefore the present study was designed to evaluate the postulated mechanism of metronidazole induced neurotoxicity and potential neuroprotective role of quercetin . Animals rats were randomly divided into five groups such as control metronidazole quercetin metronidazole quercetin and metronidazole quercetin . The brain tissues were evaluated for tissue cyclo oxygenase lipoxygenase nitrite levels inflammatory and antioxidant biomarkers . The brain tissues were further scrutinized histopathologically for neuronal degeneration . Western blotting analysis was performed for the localization of protein expression for Bax Bcl The metronidazole significantly alters the antioxidant levels inflammatory mediators and morphological changes in the brain tissue . Metronidazole also induces iNOS Bax and caspase 3 protein expressions whilst decreases the expression of Bcl The metronidazole administration causes remarkably neurotoxicity effects and the same could be attributed to the fact that metronidazole has the ability to cross the blood brain barrier and transforms the enzymatic activity of various biomarkers present in the brain . From the results it could be hypothesized that metronidazole causes neurotoxicity by hindering the proportion of antioxidants in the brain tissue and inducing nitric oxide synthesis along with apoptosis . However quercetin demonstrated a significant protective effect on neuronal toxicity precipitated through metronidazole .

@highlight Mechanism of metronidazole neurotoxicity has been illustrated.
@highlight Pharmacodynamic interaction of quercetin and metronidazole has been investigated.
@highlight Quercetin show protection against metronidazole neuronal toxicity and neuroinflammation.
