 Sepsis associated encephalopathy is a diffuse brain dysfunction induced by the systemic response to infection in septic patients . In the present study we modeled SAE by administering lipopolysaccharide intraperitoneally to mice at a concentration of 3.0mg kg . We investigated regional preferences for cytokine mediated brain reactions to endotoxemia and at what time point brain inflammation begins as well as what cytokines are involved in acute brain reactions . Brains were divided into seven parts cortex olfactory system hippocampus striatum diencephalon brain stem and cerebellum . In each brain region we determined the tissue concentrations of 11 cytokines CCL2 CCL3 CCL11 CXCL1 CXCL2 CXCL9 CXCL10 G CSF IL 1 IL 6 and TNF in mice injected with LPS or saline at 1 4 and 24h after injection using multiplex cytokine assays . Every brain region responded with the production of multiple cytokines to LPS induced systemic inflammation during the acute phase after LPS injection . IL 6 CCL2 CCL3 CXCL1 CXCL2 CXCL9 and TNF were early cytokines that increased only at 4h but not at 24h after LPS injection in most brain regions . CCL11 CXCL10 and G CSF were late cytokines that were elevated up to 24h after LPS injection in selected brain regions . The regions Olf Hip and Die were the most responsive to endotoxemia these regions produced ten cytokines and continued to produce three late cytokines up to 24h after LPS injection . Str was the least responsive to endotoxemia . The widespread nature of brain cytokine production explains the characteristics of SAE . Further studies on the roles of CCL11 CXCL10 and G CSF may be especially important in terms of potential prevention of SAE between 4 and 24h after the onset of sepsis .

@highlight We determined changes in brain concentrations of multiple cytokines after systemic LPS injection.
@highlight Widespread cytokine production throughout the brain explains septic encephalopathy.
@highlight CCL11 CXCL10 and G CSF play key roles in the pathogenesis of septic encephalopathy.
