 The brain cholinergic system comprises two main recognized subdivisions the basal forebrain and the brainstem cholinergic systems . The effects of chronic alcohol consumption on the basal forebrain cholinergic nuclei have been investigated extensively but there is only one study that has examined those effects on the brainstem cholinergic nuclei . The last one comprises the pedunculopontine tegmental and the laterodorsal tegmental nuclei which are known to give origin to the main cholinergic projection to the ventral tegmental area a key brain region of the neural circuit the mesocorticolimbic system that mediates several behavioral and physiological processes including reward . In the present study we have examined using stereological methods the effects of chronic alcohol consumption and subsequent withdrawal on the total number and size of PPT and LDT choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons . The total number of PPT and LDT ChAT immunoreactive neurons was unchanged in ethanol treated and withdrawn rats . However ChAT immunoreactive neurons were significantly hypertrophied in ethanol treated rats an alteration that did not revert 2 months after ethanol withdrawal . These results show that prolonged exposure to ethanol leads to long lasting and potentially irreversible cytoarchitectonic and neurochemical alterations in the brainstem cholinergic nuclei . These alterations suggest that the alcohol induced changes in the brainstem cholinergic nuclei might play a role in the mechanisms underlying the development of addictive behavior to alcohol .

@highlight Chronic alcohol intake does not alter the number of PPT and LDT cholinergic neurons.
@highlight Alcohol withdrawal do not alter the number of PPT and LDT cholinergic neurons.
@highlight Chronic alcohol intake induces hypertrophy of PPT and LDT cholinergic neurons.
@highlight PPT and LDT cholinergic neurons remain hypertrophic 2 months after withdrawal.
@highlight Withdrawal from chronic ethanol intake induces structural changes in the PPT and LDT.
