 Lead is an environmental contaminant that primarily affects the central nervous system particularly the developing brain . Recently increasing evidence indicates the important roles of histone deacetylases in Pb induced neurotoxicity . However the precise molecular mechanisms involving HDAC4 remains unknown . The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of HDAC4 in Pb induced neurotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro . In vitro study PC12 cells were exposed to Pb for 24 h then the mRNA and protein levels of HDAC4 were analyzed . In vivo study pregnant rats and their female offspring were treated with lead until postnatal day 30 . Then the pups were sacrificed and the mRNA and protein levels of HDAC4 in the hippocampus were analyzed . The results showed that HDAC4 was significantly increased in both PC12 cells and rat hippocampus upon Pb exposure . Blockade of HDAC4 with either LMK 235 or shHDAC4 ameliorated the Pb induced neurite outgrowth deficits . Interestingly HDAC4 was aberrantly accumulated in the nucleus upon Pb exposure . By contrast blocking the HDAC4 shuffling from the cytosol to the nucleus with NLS2 HDAC4 was able to rescue the neuronal impairment . In addition Pb increased PP1 expression which in turn influenced the subcellular localization of HDAC4 by dephosphorylation of specific serine threonine residues . Whats more blockade of PP1 with PP1 knocking down construct ameliorated Pb induced neurite outgrowth deficits . Taken together nuclear accumulation of HDAC4 by PP1 mediated dephosphorylation involved in Pb induced neurotoxicity . This study might provide a promising molecular target for medical intervention with environmental cues .

@highlight HDAC4 was up regulated by Pb exposure in vivo and in vitro.
@highlight Upregulation of HDAC4 damaged neurite outgrowth of the neural cell following Pb exposure.
@highlight Pb exposure induced the nuclear accumulation of HDAC4 in neural cells.
@highlight The Pb induced nuclear accumulation of HDAC4 was ascribed to the increase of PP1.
