 Preclinical studies suggest that exposures of infant animals to general anesthetics cause acute neurotoxicity and affect their neurobehavioral development representing a potential risk to human infants undergoing anesthesia . Alternative or mitigating strategies to counteract such adverse effects are desirable . Dexmedetomidine is a clinically established sedative with potential neuroprotective properties . DEX ameliorates experimental brain injury as well as neurotoxicity caused by anesthetic doses of sevoflurane or other general anesthetics in infant animals . However it is unknown whether DEX also is beneficial when given together with lower doses of these drugs . Here we tested the hypothesis that DEX co administration with a sub anesthetic dose of SEVO reduces responsiveness to external stimuli while also protecting against SEVO induced brain cell apoptosis . Rats were exposed on postnatal day 7 for 6h to SEVO 1.1 1.8 or 2.5 and were given intraperitoneal injections of saline or DEX at different doses three times during the exposure . Responsiveness to external stimuli respiratory rates and blood gases were assessed . Apoptosis was determined in cortical and subcortical brain areas by activated caspase 3 immunohistochemistry . Rats exposed to SEVO 1.1 alone were sedated but still responsive to external stimuli whereas those exposed to SEVO 1.8 reached complete unresponsiveness . SEVO induced brain cell apoptosis increased dose dependently with SEVO 1.1 causing a small increase in apoptosis above that in controls . Co administration of DEX at 1g kg did not alter the responsiveness to stimuli nor the apoptosis induced by SEVO 1.1 . In contrast co administration of DEX at 5g kg or higher with SEVO 1.1 reduced responsiveness but potentiated apoptosis . In the neonatal rat model co administration of a clinically relevant dose of DEX with a sub anesthetic dose of SEVO does not affect the neurotoxicity of the anesthetic while co administration of higher doses of DEX with SEVO 1.1 potentiates it .

@highlight SEVO 1.1 is a sub anesthetic dose in the infant rat model.
@highlight SEVO 1.1 induces a small increase in brain cell apoptosis.
@highlight Co administering DEX 1g kg neither alters responsiveness nor apoptosis induced by SEVO 1.1 .
@highlight Co administering higher DEX doses 525g kg potentiates apoptosis induced by SEVO 1.1 .
