 Bisphenol A is one of the most widely used chemicals in plastic industry which enters the human body through occupational and food contact . We studied the protein changes in rat cerebral cortex to evaluate the neurotoxicity of BPA . Twenty four adult male rats were randomly selected and divided into four groups and each group respectively received 0 0.5 5 and 50mg kg of BPA for 4 weeks orally . To determine the oxidative status reduced glutathione content and the level of malondialdehyde were measured in brain cortical tissue . The proteins of each sample extracted and separated on a two dimensional acrylamide gel electrophoresis . From the obtained protein map the 10 most altered protein spots were used for mass spectroscopy analysis . The lipid peroxidation in both doses of 0.5 and 5mg kg was significantly higher than the control group but the glutathione content had no significant difference between the groups . Based on the results of the MS data analysis by the MASCOT database search engine 10 proteins with altered intensity were identified as pyruvate kinase alpha enolase aconitate hydratase creatine kinase B type phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein 1 14 3 3 protein eta guanine nucleotide binding protein subunit beta 1 dihydropyrimidinase related protein 2 glutamine synthetase and the neurofilament light polypeptide . There are several reports suggesting that the increase or decrease in the level and activity of these 10 proteins similar to those observed in this study is related to some neurological and psychosocial disorders including neurodegenerative diseases schizophrenia depression epilepsy and some brain tumors .

@highlight Oral administration of BPA NOAEL dose induced oxidative stress in the rat brain cortex.
@highlight 2 D gel electrophoresis indicated that BPA altered the levels of some proteins that are involved in neuronal functions.
@highlight Western blot analysis has confirmed that BPA reduced Alpha enolase levels and in this way exert some neurotoxic effects.
