 Studies with children exposed to methylmercury through fish consumption in the Brazilian Amazon region report that the high levels of hair Hg are associated with significant decreases in intelligence memory attention and visuospatial processing . To investigate the relationship between mercury exposure and neuropsychological functions in riverside communities of the Brazilian Amazon . 263 participants aged 6 to 14 years old were assessed from resettlement regions near the Madeira river Rondnia Brazil . To assess the neuropsychological functions we used the following instruments intelligence working memory verbal fluency inhibitory control shifting and manual motor dexterity . Socioeconomic status was obtained through household surveys . Total Hg levels were quantified hair samples collected from the occipital region of the scalp and analyzed by Cold Vapor Atomic Absorption Spectrometry . The group in the upper quartile of Total HgH levels presented lower scores on the tasks that assessed estimated IQ visuospatial working memory semantic knowledge and phonological verbal fluency when compared to the group in the lower quartile level . A regression analysis controlled for age sex and maternal education showed that for each increase of 10g g of Total HgH there was a decrease around half standard deviation in Verbal IQ estimated IQ scores semantic knowledge phonological verbal fluency and for verbal and visuospatial working memory . High concentrations of Total Hg in hair were associated with a lower performance in neuropsychological functions tests . The results show that environmental exposure to Hg is associated to children and adolescents lower neuropsychological performance in the riverine and resettled areas of the Brazilian Amazon region .

@highlight Children with higher levels of Hg in hair performed worse in neuropsychological tasks
@highlight Each 10g g increase of hair Hg lowers performance by half a standard deviation
@highlight Hg exposure correlates with lower performance in children and adolescentes
@highlight Fish consumption is a possible contamination pathway in the area
