 Aluminum compounds have been observed in various brain regions and their accumulation has been associated with many neurodegenerative disorders . Neurotoxic effects of aluminum are attributed to reactive oxygen species generation induction of apoptosis and inflammatory reactions activation . Metalloestrogen activity of aluminum has also been linked to breast cancer progression and metastasis . In this study taking into account the anti apoptotic and anti oxidant activities of estrogens in neuronal cells which are mediated by estrogen receptors the possible estrogenic activity of aluminum in SH SY5Y neuroblastoma cells was studied . Our results showed that aluminum in the form of aluminum chlorohydrate exhibited no effect on estrogen receptors transcriptional activation and differential effect on estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta protein levels . ACH caused reduction in ER protein levels and increase in its mitochondrial localization . ACH induced reduction in ER protein level may be linked at least in part to the ACH induced increase in ER protein level . This statement is based on our observations showing aluminum induced reduction in the E2 induced increase in ER S118 phosphorylation in MCF 7 and SH SH5Y cells . Phosphorylation at S118 residue is known to be associated with inhibition of the ubiquitin induced proteolytic degradation of ER leading to its accumulation . Since it is known that ER negatively regulate ER expression increase in ER may contribute to reduction in ER levels and subsequent weakening of its anti apoptotic and anti oxidant activity justified by the observed reduction in procaspase 9 mitochondrial cytochrome c Bcl 2 Bcl xL and mitochondrial thioredoxin protein level as well as by the increase in proapoptotic BAX level in ACH treated SH SY5Y cells . In addition increase in mitochondrial ER localization may also trigger mitochondrial metabolism suppress biosynthetic process of gluconeogenesis as indicated by the observed reduction in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase protein level and eventually lead to increase in reactive oxygen species generation known to be implicated in aluminum induced neurodegeneration . This statement was verified by the observed ACHinduced increase in ER mitochondrial localization induction of the mitochondrial membrane depolarization and increase in ROS production in neuronal like differentiated SH SY5Y cells .

@highlight Aluminum chlorohydrate induces reduction in ER protein levels in SH SY5Y cells.
@highlight Aluminum chlorohydrate causes increase in ER protein levels in SH SY5Y cells.
@highlight Aluminum chlorohydrate blocks the E2 induced ER phosphorylation at S118.
@highlight Aluminum chlorohydrate causes mitochondrial impairment in SH SY5Y cells.
@highlight Aluminum chlorohydrate induces ROS production in neuronal differentiated SH SY5Y cells.
