 Polystyrene and chemically modified compounds in the PS family have long been used in commercial and industrial fields . However it is poorly understood whether nanoscale PS microplastic or PS nanoplastic exposure leads to perturbations in fundamental cellular functions such as proliferation differentiation and apoptosis . Herein we cultured three types of primary cells including mouse embryonic fibroblasts mixed neuronal cells isolated from embryonic cortex and cortical astrocytes and investigated the effects of their exposure to PS nanoplastics with a 100 nm diameter . Although PS nanoplastic exposure did not affect the viability of MEFs or astrocytes it significantly reduced the viability of mixed neuronal cells . Consistent with the observed effect on cellular viability levels of the apoptosis marker cleaved caspase 3 were elevated exclusively in mixed neuronal cells . To investigate whether cells uptake PS nanoplastics into the cytoplasm we exposed MEFs and neurons to fluorescent PS latex beads and monitored fluorescence over time . We found that PS nanoplastics were deposited and accumulated in the cytoplasm in a concentration dependent manner . Although astrocytes were not apoptotic upon exposure to PS nanoplastics they underwent reactive astrocytosis with increased levels of lipocalin 2 and proinflammatory cytokines . Therefore our findings suggested that the vulnerability of cells to the deposition and accumulation of PS nanoplastics in the cytoplasm was dependent on cell type . Furthermore based on our data from primary cells originating from mouse brains we suggest that reactive astrocytosis may contribute to the neuronal apoptosis seen in defective neurons with PS nanoplastics accumulated in the cell body .

@highlight Three different cell types were tested for the effect upon PS nanoplastic exposure.
@highlight PS nanoplastic exposure reduced the viability of mixed neuronal cells.
@highlight Cells uptake PS nanoplastics into the cytoplasm for intracellular accumulation.
@highlight Intracellular uptake of PS nanoplastics occurs in a concentration dependent manner.
@highlight Cellular vulnerability to accumulated PS nanoplastics depends on cell types.
