 Early life exposure to triclosan an antimicrobial chemical and suspected endocrine disruptor may adversely affect neurodevelopment . No studies have examined gestational and early childhood exposure to triclosan and childrens academic achievement . Using data from 193 mother child pairs from the HOME Study we quantified triclosan in maternal and child urine samples up to nine times between the second trimester of gestation and age 8 years . At age 8 years we administered the reading and math components of the Wide Range Achievement Test 4 to children . Using multiple informants models we estimated covariate adjusted associations of triclosan concentrations during each time period with WRAT 4 scores . We also tested whether associations differed by exposure period and child sex . There was evidence that timing of exposure modified the associations between triclosan and reading composite scores but not math scores . Each 10 fold increase in triclosan concentrations at delivery was associated with lower reading composite scores . Additionally we observed weaker and less precise inverse association of math scores with triclosan concentrations at delivery and at age 1year . There was not strong evidence that child sex modified the pattern of associations between repeated triclosan measures and WRAT 4 reading composite or math scores . Urinary triclosan concentrations at delivery and at age 1year but not other times during gestation or childhood were associated with lower reading composite and to a lesser extent math test scores at age 8 years in this cohort of U.S. children .

@highlight We measured urinary triclosan concentrations in women up to twice during pregnancy at delivery and up to 6 times in children from ages 1 8 years.
@highlight We measured childrens academic achievement at age 8years using the Wide Range Achievement Test WRAT 4 .
@highlight We used a multiple informant regression to estimate covariate adjusted triclosan reading composite and triclosan math WRAT 4 test score associations at each visit and tested if triclosan WRAT 4 associations at each visit differed from one another.
@highlight Timing of exposure modified the associations between triclosan and reading composite but not math test scores.
@highlight Maternal and childhood triclosan concentrations at delivery and at age 1 year were inversely associated with reading and math scores at age 8 years.
