 Methanol is a widely used industrial short chain aliphatic alcohol with known neurotoxic properties . Mass poisoning outbreaks due to the consumption of methanol adulterated alcoholic drinks present a challenge to healthcare providers due to the high mortality and serious central nervous system damage in survivors . However the impact of methanol exposure on the peripheral nervous system is unknown . To investigate the role of acute methanol exposure in the development of peripheral polyneuropathy during the years following discharge from the hospital . A total of 55 patients with confirmed methanol poisoning were examined 4 times within a 6 year prospective longitudinal cohort study . The program included neurological and electromyographic examinations visual evoked potentials ocular examinations with retinal nerve fibre layer thickness measurements brain magnetic resonance imaging and a series of biochemical and toxicological tests . PNP was observed in 20 55 patients which in most of the cases was mild axonal sensorimotor neuropathy . In 8 55 patients worsening of electromyographic findings was registered during the follow up period including 5 cases with newly diagnosed PNP and 3 cases of PNP progression . In one subject complete reversal of PNP was registered after cessation of alcohol intake . The patients with PNP were significantly older with higher blood glucose and lower vitamin B Despite the relatively high number of PNP cases no association was found between the severity of acute methanol poisoning and the prevalence of PNP and its dynamics during six years of observation . We did not find an association between methanol induced visual brain damage and the prevalence of PNP in survivors of poisoning . A high prevalence of PNP and its progression might be attributed to other causes mainly a history of chronic alcohol abuse and insufficiently treated diabetes mellitus . Our results highlight the importance of complete cessation of alcohol consumption and better control of glycaemia in diabetic patients in the prevention and treatment of peripheral PNP .

@highlight The impact of methanol exposure on peripheral nervous system is unknown.
@highlight We found no association between severity of methanol poisoning and polyneuropathy prevalence.
@highlight No association was found between methanol induced visual brain damage and polyneuropathy prevalence.
@highlight High polyneuropathy prevalence and progression is attributed to other than methanol causes.
@highlight Cessation of alcohol consumption and control of glycemia in diabetes are the key points in polyneuropathy prevention.
