 Chronic occupational exposure to organophosphorus pesticides is consistently associated with deficits on behavioral tests when compared to unexposed comparison groups . However a dose response relationship has yet to be established leading some to doubt an association between occupational OP exposure and behavioral deficits . Pesticide application teams in Egypt who are primarily exposed to one OP chlorpyrifos were recruited into a field assessment . Trail Making A and the more challenging Trail Making B tests were administered to 54 engineers 59 technicians 31 applicators and 150 controls at two different times during the OP application season as well as immediately after applications had ended and 1.5 months later . All participants were males since only males work on pesticide application teams in Egypt . Urinary levels of 3 5 6 trichloro 2 pyridinol a specific metabolite of CPF confirmed the pattern of lower to higher CPF exposures from engineers to technicians to applicators and these were all greater than urinary metabolite levels in controls . A consistent relationship between job title and performance speed on the behavioral task was observed Controls had the best performance on Trail Making A and B tests throughout the application season and applicators had significantly slower performance than engineers on Trail Making A and B . However individual urinary TCPy blood acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase levels did not predict individual performance . This study identifies a dose related effect based on job title which serves as a surrogate for chronic exposure in that differing job titles exhibit varying group exposure levels . The results establish that chronic occupational exposure to chlorpyrifos is neurotoxic and suggest that the classic biomarkers of recent CPF exposure are not predictive of chronic exposure effects .

@highlight Field assessment of pesticide application teams applying primarily chlorpyrifos.
@highlight Urinary biomarker of chlorpyrifos exposure correlated with job titles.
@highlight Job titles correlated with Trail Making Test TMT performance.
@highlight Dose response effect of chlorpyrifos on TMT based on job title which correlated to exposure.
@highlight Biomarkers of recent chlorpyrifos exposure not predictive of chronic exposure effects on TMT.
