 During brain development volatile anesthetic can rapidly interfere with physiologic patterns of dendritic development and synaptogenesis and impair the formation of precise neuronal circuits . KCC2 plays vital roles in spine development and synaptogenesis through its Cl transport function and structural interactions with the spine cytoskeleton protein 4.1N . The aim of this study was to dissect the mechanism of volatile anesthetics which impair dendritic development and synaptogenesis via mediation of KCC2 cleavage . Westernblotting was employed to assess the expression change of NR2B NR2A calpain 1 calpain 2 KCC2 and 4.1N protein of rat . Co immunoprecipitation was applied to demonstrate the interaction between KCC2 and 4.1N protein . Long term cognitive deficiency was assessed by MWM . Lentivirus calpain 2 was administered by hippocampus stereotaxic injection . There was a significant increase in the level of NR2B instead of NR2A exposure to isoflurane . Calpain 2 was excessively activated via NR2B after 6h of isoflurane exposure . The expression of plasmalemmal KCC2 and 4.1N protein was significantly decreased treated with isoflurane . The isoflurane group showed longer traveled distance prolonged escape latency less time spent in the target quadrant and decreased platform crossings . Pretreatment with ifenprodil and downregulated calpain 2 expression significantly alleviated these neurotoxicity responses and cognitive deficiency after isoflurane exposure . A significant increase in NR2B excessive activation of calpain 2 and increased cleavage of plasmalemmal KCC2 are involved in isoflurane induced neurotoxicity and long term cognitive deficiency . Blocking NR2B and calpain 2 activity significantly attenuated these responses . The KCC2 cleavage mediated by NR2B and calpain 2 is a major determinant of isoflurane induced long term cognitive deficiency .

@highlight A significant increase in NR2B excessive activation of calpain 2 and increased cleavage of plasmalemmal KCC2 after isoflurane exposure.
@highlight Blocking NR2B and calpain 2 activity significantly attenuated these responses.
@highlight The KCC2 cleavage mediated by NR2B and calpain 2 is a major determinant of isoflurane induced long term cognitive deficiency.
