 Animal studies have consistently observed neuronal death following methamphetamine administration however these have not been systematically reviewed . This systematic review aims to present the evidence for MA induced neuronal death in animals and identify the regions affected . Locating the brain regions in which neuronal death occurs in animal studies will provide valuable insight into the linkage between MA consumption and the structural alterations observed in the human brain . The data were collected from three databases Scopus Ovid and the Web of Science . Thirty seven studies met the inclusion criteria and were divided into two sub groups i.e . acute and repeated administration . Twenty six acute and ten repeated administration studies observed neuronal death . A meta analysis was not possible due to different variables between studies i.e . species treatment regimens withdrawal periods methods of quantification and regions studied . Acute MA treatment induced neuronal death in the frontal cortex striatum and substantia nigra but not in the hippocampus whereas repeated MA administration led to neuronal loss in the hippocampus frontal cortex and striatum . In addition when animals self administered the drug neuronal death was observed at much lower doses than the doses administered by experimenters . There is some overlap in the regions where neuronal death occurred in animals and the identified regions from human studies . For instance gray matter deficits have been observed in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of MA users . The findings presented in this review implicate that not only does MA induce neuronal death in animals but it also damages the same regions affected in human users . Despite the inter species differences animal studies have contributed significantly to addiction research and are still of great assistance for future research with a more relevant model of compulsive drug use in humans .

@highlight MA induces neuronal loss in the frontal cortex striatum and hippocampus in rodents.
@highlight Repeated MA induces hippocampal neuronal death but acute dose does not.
@highlight Self administration produces cell death more effectively than non contingent model.
@highlight Smaller prefrontal cortex and hippocampus in humans may be attributed to MA use.
