 Cadmium is a heavy metal that is one of the most toxic environmental pollutants throughout the world . We previously reported that Cd exposure impairs olfactory memory in mice . However the underlying mechanisms for its neurotoxicity for olfactory function are not well understood . Since adult Subventricular zone and Olfactory Bulb neurogenesis contributes to olfaction olfactory memory defects caused by Cd may be due to inhibition of neurogenesis . In this study using bromodeoxyuridine labeling and immunohistochemistry we found that 0.6 mg L Cd exposure through drinking water impaired adult SVZ OB neurogenesis in C57BL 6 mice . To determine if the inhibition of olfactory memory by Cd can be reversed by stimulating adult neurogenesis we utilized the transgenic caMEK5 mouse strain to conditional stimulate of adult neurogenesis by activating the endogenous ERK5 MAP kinase signaling pathway . This was accomplished by conditionally induced expression of active MEK5 in adult neural stem progenitor cells . The caMEK5 mice were exposed to 0.6 mg L Cd for 38 weeks and tamoxifen was administered to induce caMEK5 expression and stimulate adult SVZ OB neurogenesis during Cd exposure . Short term olfactory memory test and sand digging based odor cued olfactory learning and memory test were conducted after Cd and tamoxifen treatments to examine their effects on olfaction . Here we report that Cd exposure impaired short term olfactory memory and odor cued associative learning and memory in mice . Furthermore the Cd impaired olfactory memory deficits were rescued by the tamoxifen induction of caMEK5 expression . This suggests that Cd exposure impairs olfactory function by affecting adult SVZ OB neurogenesis in mice .

@highlight Cd exposure through drinking water impaired adult SVZ OB neurogenesis in female C57BL 6 mice.
@highlight Cd exposure impaired short term olfactory memory and odor cued associative learning and memory in female caMEK5 mice.
@highlight Inducible expression of caMEK5 which can stimulate adult neurogenesis rescued animals from Cd impaired olfactory memory.
