 Keratoconus is a common and progressive eye disease characterized by thinning and tapering of the cornea . This degenerative eye disease is currently treated in the clinic with an interventional technique that can cause serious side effects as a result of the surgical procedure . The aim of this project is to design innovative formulations for the development of a riboflavin containing medicinal product to develop a non invasive keratoconus treatment as an alternative to current treatment modalities . Nanostructured lipid carriers were successfully loaded with either riboflavin base of riboflavin 5 phosphate sodium and designed with either Stearylamine or Trancutol P . In vitro characterization studies cytotoxicity and permeability studies were performed . Selected formulations and commercial preparations were applied and compared in ex vivo corneal drug accumulation and transition studies . Furthermore in vivo studies were performed to assess drug accumulation in the rat cornea and the corneal stability after NLC treatment was investigated via a biomechanical study on isolated rabbit corneas . Both in vitro and ex vivo as well as in vivo data showed that from the prepared NLC formulations the most effective formulation was riboflavin 5 phosphate sodium containing NLC with Transcutol P as permeation enhancer . It possessed the highest drug loading content low accumulation in the cornea but high permeability through the cornea as well as the highest functional performance in corneal crosslinking . Topical application of riboflavin 5 phosphate sodium loaded NLC systems designed with permeation enhancer Transcutol P may act as a potential alternative for non invasive keratoconus treatments .

@highlight Riboflavin salt showed higher nanoparticle drug loading than riboflavin base.
@highlight Riboflavin salt leads to higher corneal drug transport than riboflavin base.
@highlight Transcutol p permeation enhancer increased the effectiveness of riboflavin salt.
@highlight Stearylamine cationic agent increased the effectiveness of riboflavin base.
@highlight Riboflavin containing NLCs can significantly improve corneal crosslinking.
