 Therapeutic proteins are attractive candidates for the treatment of human diseases . However their short half life often limits their clinical application . To overcome this problem injectable hydrogels have been developed as depots for controlled release of therapeutic proteins but these systems have not yet achieved the desired extended sustained drug release profile . Our strategy herein was to implement selective and strong interactions between the hydrogels and therapeutic proteins . Specifically we investigated whether strong and specific interactions between human serum albumin and albumin binding peptide can be used to achieve extended release of urate oxidase a therapeutic protein for hyperuricemia treatment from pH and temperature sensitive injectable hydrogels consisting of poly poly copolymer . Thus HSA was conjugated to Uox and ABP was introduced in PEG PAEU . Polymers conjugates and hydrogels were extensively characterized for their physicochemical characteristics and in vivo efficacy in a hyperuricemia mouse model . Briefly the hydrogels exhibited good injectability in vitro biocompatibility and extended drug release and in vivo gel formation and degradability . The serum half life of the Uox HSA loaded in PEG PAEU ABP hydrogels was 96h in mice which was 88 5.5 and 2 times longer than that of free native Uox free Uox HSA and Uox HSA loaded in PEG PAEU hydrogels respectively . In the hyperuricemia mouse model Uox HSA loaded in PEG PAEU ABP hydrogels exhibited a substantially extended period of uric acid lowering efficacy . These results clearly show that by applying ABP HSA strong interaction to injectable hydrogels and therapeutic protein the concentration of the therapeutic protein can be maintained for a long period in vivo prolonging its therapeutic effect . Further our approach can be tailored to accommodate other therapeutic proteins which potentially expands the clinical applicability range of these systems .

@highlight Extended release of albumin uricase conjugate from albumin affibody hydrogel
@highlight Substantially extended period of in vivo uric acid lowering activity of uricase
@highlight Injectable gel platform technology for extended half life and in vivo efficacy
