 Personalized medicine should ideally be prescribed to every individual because of the unique characteristics of each individual . It is however challenging to provide personalized medicine for the mass population of specific individuals effectively and efficiently . This manuscript describes a method of fabricating fully customizable drug tablets for personalized medicine by the 3D printing technology . This method involves the versatile fabrication of the tablets via the specifically designed 3D printed molds of different shapes and sizes and an intuitive 1 dimensional release of drug that relates the shape of the drug containing matrix to the release profile . The customization includes all the aspects of varying dosage duration release profiles and combination of multiple drugs . In particular it has previously been technically difficult to devise a single platform that fabricates carriers that release drug with any desired type of release profiles . This method of fabricating fully customizable tablets is simple inexpensive and efficient . Detailed selection and investigation of the materials ensured that the tablet and the method of fabrication are safe and other desirable features are achieved . These desirable characteristics of the method thus allow fully customizable drug tablets to be fabricated efficiently on the spot after the diagnosis of individual patients at the same time the method can be made widely accessible to the mass population . Hence the concept of personalized medicine can truly be realized .

@highlight Fully customizable drug tablets were prepared via the 3D printing technology for personalized medicine.
@highlight Customization includes all aspects of dosage duration release profiles and combination of multiple drugs in a single tablet.
@highlight Wide range of customization demonstrated including high drug loading and sustained release.
@highlight Method is simple inexpensive safe and versatile.
@highlight Individually customized drug tablet can thus be made widely accessible for realizing the concept of personalized medicine.
