 Developmental methylmercury exposure can have lasting consequences on neural development and motor function across the lifespan . Recent evidence for MeHg targeting of myogenic pathways has drawn attention to the possibility that developing skeletal muscle plays a role in the motor deficits stemming from early life MeHg exposure . In this study we examined a potential role for muscle in influencing MeHg developmental toxicity in offspring of female mice exposed to MeHg via drinking water . Dams had access to 0 0.5 or 5.0ppm MeHg chloride in drinking water from two weeks prior to mating through weaning . Blood brain and muscle tissue was harvested from dams at weaning and pups at postnatal days 6 21 and 60 for analysis of total Hg . Muscle tissue sections were examined with histological stains . Behavioral testing of offspring was conducted at PND 60 and included locomotor activity inverted screen grip strength and rotarod tests to assess motor function . Total Hg levels in dam muscles at weaning were 1.73 fold higher than Hg levels in blood or brain . In PND6 male and female pups muscle and brain tHg levels were 2 to 4 fold higher than blood tHg . Brain tHg levels decreased more rapidly than muscle tHg levels between PND 6 and 21 . Premised on modeling of growth dilution brain tissue demonstrated an elimination of tHg while muscle tissue exhibited a net uptake of tHg between PND 6 and 21 . Despite overall elevated Hg levels in developing muscle no gross morphological or cytological phenotypes were observed in muscle at PND 60 . At the higher MeHg dose grip strength was reduced in both females and males at PND 60 whereas only male specific deficits were observed in locomotor activity and inverted screen tests with marginally significant deficits on rotarod . These findings highlight a potential role for developing skeletal muscle in mediating the neuromuscular insult of early life MeHg exposure .

@highlight Methylmercury accumulates in muscle tissue to higher levels than in brain and blood in dams and maternally exposed offspring.
@highlight Growing muscle potentially serves as a reservoir for methylmercury that leaves the brain in early postnatal development.
@highlight Early life methylmercury exposure can lead to male biased adult motor deficits.
