 In spite of introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy against human immunodeficiency virus infection inaccessibility and poor adherence to oral cART costs 10 in 100 000 death worldwide . Failure in adherence leads to viral rebound emergence of drug resistance and anticipated HIV infection in high risk individuals . Various Long acting antiretroviral nanoformulations including nano prodrug solid drug nanoparticles nanocrystals aspherical nanoparticles polymeric and lipidic nanoparticles have shown plasma tissue drug concentration in the therapeutic range for several weeks during pre clinical evaluation . LA ARV nanoformulations therefore have replaced cART as better alternative for the treatment of HIV infection . Cabenuva is recently approved by Health Canada containing LA cabotegravir LA rilpivirine nanocrystals for once monthly administration by intramuscular route . The LA nanoformulation due to its nanosize insist on better stability delivery to lymphatic slow release into systemic circulation via lymphatic circulatory system conjoint and secondary drug depot within infiltered immune cells at site of administration and systemic circulation in contrast to conventional drugs . However the pharmacokinetic biodistribution and efficacy of LA nanoformulations hinge onto physicochemical properties of the drugs and route of administration . Therefore current review emphasizes on these contradistinctive factors that affects the reproducibility safety efficacy and toxicity of LA anti HIV nanoformulations . Moreover it expatiates on application of profuse nanoformulations for long acting effect with promising preclinical discoveries and two clinical leads . To add on utilization of physiology based and mechanism based pharmacokinetic modelling and

@highlight Current review accentuates implications of distinct considerations for fabrication of LA ARV nanoformulation.
@highlight Pre clinical studies established and ongoing clinical trials of cabotegravir and rilpivirine LA nanoformulation.
@highlight Presentation of distinct nanocarriers emerged as
@highlight hits and striked into preclinical trials.
@highlight and
@highlight models utilized to deduce clinical success of emerging LA ARV nanoformulations.
