 Gulf War Illness affects 30 of veterans from the 1991 Gulf War who suffer from symptoms that reflect ongoing mitochondria dysfunction . Brain mitochondria bioenergetics dysfunction in GWI animal models corresponds with astroglia activation and neuroinflammation . In a pilot study of GW veterans we observed that blood nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and sirtuin 1 protein levels were decreased in the blood of veterans with GWI compared to healthy GW veterans . Since nicotinamide riboside mediated targeting of Sirt1 is shown to improve mitochondria function we tested whether NR can restore brain bioenergetics and reduce neuroinflammation in a GWI mouse model . We administered a mouse diet supplemented with NR at 100g kg daily for 2 months to GWI and control mice . During treatment mice were assessed for fatigue type behavior using the Forced Swim Test followed by euthanasia for biochemistry and immunohistochemistry analyses . Fatigue type behavior was elevated in GWI mice compared to control mice and lower in GWI mice treated with NR compared to untreated GWI mice . Levels of plasma NAD and brain Sirt1 were low in untreated GWI mice while GWI mice treated with NR had higher levels similar to those of control mice . Deacetylation of the nuclear factor B p65 subunit and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 was an increase in the brains of NR treated GWI mice . This corresponded with a decrease in pro inflammatory cytokines and lipid peroxidation and an increase in markers of mitochondrial bioenergetics in the brains of GWI mice . These findings suggest that targeting NR mediated Sirt1 activation restores brain bioenergetics and reduces inflammation in GWI mice . Further evaluation of NR in GWI is warranted to determine its potential efficacy in treating GWI .

@highlight Blood NAD and Sirt1 are low in GW veterans with GWI.
@highlight Treatment with NR increased NAD and alleviated fatigue like behavior in a mouse model of GWI.
@highlight Consistent with human GWI blood NAD and Sirt1 are low in our mouse model of GWI.
@highlight Brain NAD levels were normal in GWI mice but are increased in both GWI and control mice after NR treatment.
@highlight Treatment with NR increased Sirt1 activity and reduced neuroinflammation in the brains of GWI mice.
@highlight Targeting sirtuin activity with NR may represent a new avenue for treating GWI.
