 Albumin conjugated drugs attain KRAS mutant cancer targeting through KRAS enhanced macropinocytosis and intensified lysosomal degradation due to reduced neonatal Fc receptor expression . The cytosolic delivery of active payloads relies on endocytosis and subsequent intracellular processing of albumin delivery vehicles wherein complex regulatory mechanisms and molecular machineries are closely involved . Despite the obvious merit of KRAS targeting could such an endocytic process involving extra molecular regulators also bring about extra vulnerabilities to albumin conjugated drugs particularly unexpected drug resistance To assess such risks here we performed an unbiased drug resistance mechanism comparison in pancreatic cancer between free triptolide and albumin conjugated TP using genome wide CRISPR Cas9 loss of function screens . GTF2H5 a subunit of GTF2H transcription factor complex was the only hit identified regardless of forms of TP treatment . With drug efficacy tests on GTF2H5 knockout clones we further concluded that GTF2H5 deficiency conferred drug resistance primarily due to the pharmacological mechanism of action of TP . In addition molecules previously considered to be able to affect endocytosis and intracellular processing were not enriched during the screening with albumin conjugated TP . With the aid of genome wide CRISPR Cas9 loss of function screens we conclude that the pharmacological resistance of the active payload rather than any potential loss of function mutations in endocytic molecular machineries is the solely crucial drug resistance mechanism of albumin conjugated drugs .

@highlight In KRAS mutant pancreatic cancer cells albumin TP conjugates rely on macropinocytosis and lysosomal degradation to attain pharmacological effects.
@highlight With the pooled genome wide CRISPR Cas9 loss of function screens GTF2H5 deficiency a resistance mechanism of the payload TP is identified as the only drug resistance vulnerability.
@highlight Mutations of endocytic genes are not enriched in albumin TP drug resistant cells.
