 Triple negative breast cancer is a highly aggressive and metastatic subtype of breast cancer showing non responsiveness to most available therapeutic options . Therefore smart therapeutic approaches to selectively transport and target TNBCs are required . Herein we developed thymoquinone loaded hyaluronic acid conjugated Pluronic P123 and F127 copolymer nanoparticles as a selective drug carrying vehicle to deliver anticancer phytochemical TQ to TNBC cells . The mean size of nanoparticles was around 19.33.2nm . and they were stable at room temperature up to 4months . HA TQ Nps were immensely cytotoxic towards TNBC cells but did not show the toxic effect on normal cells . Detailed investigations also demonstrated its pro apoptotic anti metastatic and anti angiogenic activity . In depth mechanistic studies highlighted that HA TQ Nps retarded cell migration of TNBC cells through up regulation of microRNA 361 which in turn down regulated Rac1 and RhoA mediated cell migration and also perturbed the cancer cell migration under the influence of the autocrine effect of VEGF A . Moreover HA TQ Np treatment also perturbed tumor induced vascularization by reducing the secretion of VEGF A . The anti metastatic and anti angiogenic activity of HA TQ Nps was found to be evident in both MDA MB 231 xenograft chick embryos and 4T1 mammary solid tumor model in syngeneic mice . Thus an innovative targeted nano therapeutic approach is being established to reduce the tumor burden and inhibit metastasis and angiogenesis simultaneously for better management of TNBC .

@highlight Synthesis of hyaluronic acid HA conjugated Pluronic P123 copolymer HA P123 .
@highlight Synthesis of thymoquinone TQ loaded HA attached mixed Pluronic nanoparticles HA TQ Nps A novel approach.
@highlight HA TQ Np shows prominent pro apoptotic anti migratory and anti angiogenic effects on triple negative breast cancer cells.
@highlight HA TQ Np shows prominent pro apoptotic anti migratory and anti angiogenic effects on triple negative breast cancer cells.
@highlight Inhibition of metastasis and tumor induced angiogenesis is also mediated through miR 361 VEGF A pathway.
