 Acute pancreatitis is a sudden inflammatory reaction caused by the activation of pancreatic enzymes in the pancreas and in severe cases can lead to systemic inflammation and multiple organ failure . Oxidative stress contributed to the further deterioration of inflammation and played an important role in AP development . Bilirubin has been found to exert antioxidative anti inflammatory and anti apoptotic effects in a series of diseases accompanied by a high level of oxidative stress . However the therapeutic effects of bilirubin for AP management have not yet been demonstrated . Additionally the poor solubility and potential toxicity of bilirubin also limit its application . Thus we developed bilirubin encapsulated silk fibrin nanoparticles to study the protective effects and mechanisms of bilirubin nanomedicine for the treatment of AP . BRSNPs could selectively delivery to the inflammatory lesion of the pancreas and release bilirubin in an enzyme responsive manner . In the model of AP caused by L Arginine hyperstimulation BRSNPs exerted strong therapeutic effects against AP by the reduction of oxidative stress decreased expression of pro inflammatory cytokines and impaired recruitment of macrophages and neutrophils . The mechanism study indicated that BRSNPs protected acinar cells against extensive oxidative damage and inflammation through inhibiting NF B pathway and activating the Nrf2 HO 1 pathway . Collectively for the first time this study demonstrated that bilirubin nanomedicine BRSNPs are effective in alleviating experimental acute pancreatitis and the mechanisms are associated with its inhibition of NF B regulated pro inflammatory signaling and activation of Nrf2 regulated cytoprotective protein expression .

@highlight Bilirubin nanomedicine holds potent therapeutic potentials aginst acute pancreatitis.
@highlight Silk firboin based nanoparticle release the bilirubin in an enzyme resposnive manner.
@highlight Bilirubin nanomedicine selectively accumulate at the inflammatory pancreas.
@highlight Bilirubin nanomedicine suppressed oxidative stress by activating Nrf2 HO 1 pathway.
@highlight Bilirubin nanomedicine reduced inflammation by inhibiting NF B pathway.
