 Basal ganglia lesions are typical findings on magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in survivors of acute methanol poisoning . However no data are available on the association between the magnitude of damaged brain regions serum concentrations of markers of acute methanol toxicity oxidative stress neuroinflammation and the rate of retinal nerve ganglion cell loss . To investigate the association between MRI based volumetry of the basal ganglia retinal nerve fibre layer thickness and prognostic laboratory markers of outcomes in acute methanol poisoning . MRI based volumetry of putamen nucleus caudatus and globus pallidus was performed and compared with laboratory parameters of severity of poisoning and acute serum markers of oxidative damage of lipids nucleic acids proteins and leukotrienes as well as with the results of RNFL measurements by optic coherence tomography in 16 patients with acute methanol poisoning and in 28 survivors of poisoning two years after discharge with the same markers measured within the follow up examination . The control group consisted of 28 healthy subjects without methanol poisoning . The survivors of acute methanol poisoning had significantly lower volumes of basal ganglia than the controls . The patients with MRI signs of methanol induced toxic brain damage had significantly lower volumes of basal ganglia than those without these signs . A positive correlation was found between the volume of putamen and arterial blood pH on admission . A negative correlation was present between the volumes of putamen and acute serum lactate creatinine and glucose concentrations . In survivors of acute methanol poisoning with signs of toxic brain damage the magnitude of affected areas correlated with acute parameters of severity of poisoning markers of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation . There was a positive association between the basal ganglia volume and the thickness of RNFL making OCT an important screening test and MRI based volumetry the confirmative diagnostic method for the detection of CNS sequelae of methanol poisoning .

@highlight Necrosis of basal ganglia are the typical MRI finding in survivors of methanol poisoning.
@highlight Survivors with toxic brain damage had lower volume of basal ganglia.
@highlight Positive correlation between the volume of putamen markers of severity of poisoning.
@highlight Correlation between the basal ganglia volume and the thickness of retinal nerve fibers layer.
