 This paper investigates the effects of demand information sharing on concession arrangements and market equilibria when two ports each managed by a welfare maximizing port authority and a profit maximizing port operator compete for demands . The problem is formulated as a multi stage game in which the authority and the operator at each port first decide whether to share demand information and make concession arrangements then the port operators compete la Cournot . Alternative scenarios are compared to identify the effects of information sharing and market structure . Our analytical results identify the conditions under which demand information sharing is beneficial in port concession arrangements and highlight the importance of the underlying market structure and congestion levels in achieving these benefits . Specifically we show that information sharing is a source of welfare improvement and the effects are more significant when the positive externality of information sharing on welfare is large inter port competition is strong and port congestion is costly . However with no compensation the port operators have no incentive to share their private information because otherwise this is likely to increase concession unit fees limit their ability to compete effectively with each other and ultimately reduce their expected profits . Therefore transfer payments are necessary to encourage information sharing . With this arrangement and the assumed symmetric cost and service structure we show that a port operator prefers sharing information if the externality of information sharing on welfare exceeds a threshold . Furthermore when this externality is sufficiently large the operators at both ports benefit from sharing information . Finally when the two ports compete in price we show that a port operator s single side information sharing may not always benefit its port authority .

@highlight We investigate the effects of demand information sharing between PAs and POs on concession arrangements and market equilibria.
@highlight We find that information sharing can improve welfare if its externality is sufficiently high.
@highlight Absent compensation POs have no incentive to share their private information to PAs.
@highlight With information sharing payment arrangement and when ports cost and services are symmetric one PO prefers to share information when the externality on welfare exceeds a threshold.
