 The premise of ride sharing is that service providers can offer a discount so that travellers are compensated for prolonged travel times and induced discomfort while still increasing their revenues . While recently proposed real time solutions support online operations algorithms to perform strategic system wide evaluations are crucially needed . We propose an exact replicable and demand rather than supply driven algorithm for matching trips into shared rides . We leverage on delimiting our search for attractive shared rides only which coupled with a directed shareability multi graph representation and efficient graph searches with predetermined node sequence narrows the search space effectively enough to derive an exact solution . The proposed utility based formulation paves the way for model integration in travel demand models allowing for a cross scenario sensitivity analysis including pricing strategies and regulation policies . We apply the proposed algorithm in a series of experiments for the case of Amsterdam where we perform a system wide analysis of the ride sharing performance in terms of both algorithm computations of shareability under alternative demand network and service settings as well as behavioural parameters . In the case of Amsterdam 3000 travellers offered a 30 discount form 1900 rides achieving an average occupancy of 1.67 and yielding a 30 vehicle hours reduction at the cost of halving service provider revenues and a 17 increase in passenger hours . Benchmarking against time window constrained approaches reveals that our algorithm reduces the search space more effectively while yielding solutions that are substantially more attractive for travellers .

@highlight Shared rides can be attractive only if detour and delay are compensated with lower fares 
@highlight Limiting searches to attractive shared rides effectively narrows the search space to enable an exact solution 
@highlight We introduce an exact matching algorithm which allows a system wide and fast evaluation of demand patterns and service performance 
@highlight Multidimensional analysis of shared rides in Amsterdam.
@highlight Low discounts for shared rides do not induce sharing behaviour while high discounts do not compensate induced costs.
