 The mixed flow of pedestrians and cyclists is frequently observed on the roads they share but investigations of the dynamics of this kind of mixed flow have been very limited . This study proposes a heuristic based model to reproduce the mixed flow dynamics of pedestrians and cyclists and the model is calibrated with an experiment on the mixed traffic flow of pedestrians and cyclists . Pedestrians cyclists were asked to walk ride on a ring shaped track . In the uni bidirectional flow scenario pedestrians and cyclists moved in the same opposite direction . A genetic algorithm was used for parameter calibration . The model could reproduce the experimental results well . Under both scenarios pedestrians and cyclists formed their own lanes . The pedestrians walked in the inner lane and cyclists rode in the outer lane in a self organized process . The widths of the pedestrian lane and the cyclist lane were found to be more uniform during bidirectional flow . The pedestrian flow rate was higher in the unidirectional flow scenario than in the bidirectional flow scenario . In contrast at low cyclist densities the cyclist flow rate was essentially the same in both scenarios . When the density was high the cyclist flow rate is higher in the unidirectional flow scenario . Sensitivity analyses showed that cyclist speed had little effect on the pedestrian flow rate . A higher cyclist speed led to a higher cyclist flow rate at low densities but the cyclist flow rates approached the same value at high cyclist densities . As the proportion of pedestrians cyclists increased the flow rate of cyclists pedestrians decreased . The simulation results on a straight track were largely consistent with those on a ring shaped track .

@highlight A heuristic based model was developed to reproduce mixed flow dynamics of pedestrians and bicycles.
@highlight Experiments of mixed pedestrian bicycle flow were conducted to collect data for calibrating the developed model.
@highlight Lane formation was observed and reproduced in mixed flow simulations.
@highlight The influence of pedestrians and bicycles on mixed flow dynamics was determined.
