 Emergency response systems should respond to disasters in a timely and cost effective manner . One of the most complicated tasks facing managers is debris management . During post disaster operations response teams must make road network connections between supplier nodes and demand nodes in order to protect human health and safety . The effectiveness of response operations depends on positioning of relief supplies in anticipation of new clearance equipment requests at new locations as well as with relocation of clearance equipment items to rebalance the use of items post disaster . To solve this problem a novel dynamic post disaster debris clearance problem is introducedone that features non myopic positioning of clearance equipment items based on a queuing formulation that is compatible with the maximum weighted flow problem under incomplete information proposed by elik etal . . By including a clearance equipment positioning strategy we improve the strategy of the stochastic debris clearance problem with a new framework on dynamically optimizing the post disaster debris clearance strategy with limited observable information about the disaster relief resources located on the road network . The proposed dynamic debris clearance approach sets out to satisfy the need for debris clearance and relief services by using the connection between the demand nodes and the supplier nodes in a case where information on the disaster region is only partially observable . An empirical study of Hurricane Harvey in the City of Houston was performed to obtain concepts into the impacts of dynamic programming model and parameters in order to supply the needed relief via a positioning strategy for clearance equipment items .

@highlight We propose positioning of clearance equipment items in anticipation of new equipment requests in order to meet new requirements for location and relocation of clearance equipment or to rebalance the use of the equipment post disaster.
@highlight We develop a maximum weighted flow with location problem which incorporates queuing for services that have physical queue delays.
@highlight A more efficient search for the POMDP approach where unnecessary actions and observations can be eliminated by considering a reliability constraint under a look ahead policy is proposed.
@highlight The proposed dynamic approach intends to learn the needs of the road network in order to satisfy demand points using the connection between relief demand and supply nodes.
@highlight An empirical study of Hurricane Harvey in the City of Houston was performed to supply the needed relief via a positioning strategy for clearance equipment items.
