 This study attempts to incorporate spatial heterogeneity into the optimal design of paired line hybrid transit systems which aims to strike a better balance between accessibility and efficiency by leveraging the flexibility of a demand adaptive service . A simple trip production and distribution model is introduced to differentiate the central business district of a city from its periphery . To cope with the heterogeneous demand pattern the transit system is also configured differently inside and outside the CBD for both its fixed route and demand adaptive services . Allowing the supply heterogeneity complicates transit users route choice modeling considerably . As a result user costs must be estimated separately for six subregions that constitute the feasible set of the fixed route headway . Each subregion corresponds to a unique route choice behavior hence leading to a distinctive design model that is formulated as a mixed integer program and solved by a commercial solver . Results of numerical experiments show that concentrating demand in the CBD significantly reduces the average system cost and this benefit increases as the average demand density becomes larger . Also recognizing demand heterogeneity and responding to it with a tailored design can be highly beneficial . However this benefit diminishes as the average demand density increases .

@highlight This study attempts to incorporate spatial heterogeneity into the optimal design of paired line hybrid transit systems.
@highlight A simple trip production and distribution model is introduced to differentiate the central business district of a city from its periphery.
@highlight Supply heterogeneity is also allowed which complicates transit users route choice modeling.
@highlight Results of numerical experiments show that concentrating demand in CBD significantly reduces the average system cost.
@highlight Recognizing demand heterogeneity and responding to it with a tailored design could be highly beneficial.
