 This paper presents the formulation of a family of two regime car following models where both free flow and congestion regimes obey statistically independent random processes . This formulation generalizes previous efforts based on Brownian and geometric Brownian acceleration processes each reproducing a different feature of traffic instabilities . The probability density of vehicle positions turns out to be analytical in our model and therefore parameters can be estimated using maximum likelihood . This allows us to test a wide variety of hypotheses using statistical inference methods such as the homogeneity of the driver vehicle population and the statistical significance of the impacts of roadway geometry . Using data from two car following experiments we find that model parameters are similar across repeated experiments within the same dataset but different across datasets the acceleration error process is closer to a Brownian motion and drivers press the gas pedal harder than usual when they come to an upgrade segment . Additionally we explain the cause of traffic oscillations traveling downstream which were observed both in the field data and in our simulations . The model is flexible so that newer vehicle technologies can be incorporated to test such hypotheses as differences in the car following parameters of automated and regular vehicles when data becomes available .

@highlight We generalize previous car following models based on stochastic bounded vehicle accelerations.
@highlight The model captures most traffic instabilities including realistic traffic oscillations and speed capacity relationship at bottlenecks.
@highlight Model parameters are estimated by maximum likelihood estimation and we test a wide variety of hypothesis using statistical inference methods.
@highlight We find that the roadway grade is a variable that cannot be omitted in carfollowing models.
@highlight In upgrade segments drivers compensate the effects of gravity by pressing the gas pedal harder than usual.
