 During railway disruptions most passengers may not be able to find preferred alternative train services due to the current way of handling disruptions that does not take passenger responses into account . To offer better alternatives to passengers this paper proposes a novel passenger oriented timetable rescheduling model which integrates timetable rescheduling and passenger reassignment into a Mixed Integer Linear Programming model with the objective of minimizing generalized travel times in vehicle times waiting times at origin transfer stations and the number of transfers . The model applies the dispatching measures of re timing re ordering cancelling flexible stopping and flexible short turning trains handles rolling stock circulations at both short turning and terminal stations of trains and takes station capacity into account . To solve the model efficiently an Adapted Fix and Optimize algorithm is developed . Numerical experiments were carried out to a part of the Dutch railways . The results show that the proposed passenger oriented timetable rescheduling model is able to shorten generalized travel times significantly compared to an operator oriented timetable rescheduling model that does not consider passenger responses . By allowing only 10min more train delay than an optimal operator oriented rescheduling solution the passenger oriented model is able to shorten the generalized travel times over all passengers by thousands of minutes in all considered disruption scenarios . With a passenger oriented rescheduled timetable more passengers continue their train travels after a disruption started compared to a rescheduled timetable from the operator oriented model . The AFaO algorithm obtains high quality solutions to the passenger oriented model in up to 300s .

@highlight We propose a new MILP model that integrates timetable rescheduling and passenger reassignment by applying the dispatching measures of re timing re ordering cancelling flexible stopping and flexible short turning trains with the objective of minimizing generalized travel times i.e. weighted travel times considering passenger preferences on waiting times at origin transfer station in vehicle times and the number of transfers .
@highlight For the first time the dispatching measure of flexible stopping adding and skipping stops is formulated with passenger re routing in a railway network instead of one corridor where transfers are allowed. The positive and negative impact of adding skipping a stop is explicitly formulated considering dynamic passenger behaviour.
@highlight We propose an adapted fix and optimize algorithm to efficiently solve the passengeroriented timetable rescheduling model with optimal or near optimal solutions. The algorithm allows to find a good balance between the solution quality and the computation time by changing the input parameter.
@highlight The passenger oriented timetable rescheduling model is able to generate rescheduling solutions with shorter generalized travel times than an operator oriented model according to results of real life instances in part of the Dutch railway network.
