 This paper examines how the ridesharing program will reshape the spatial distribution of traffic congestion . With ridesharing services travelers make multi dimensional decisions concerning mode choices route choices and matching decisions . We build a path based equilibrium model to describe the decision making of travelers in the presence of the ridesharing program and thereby to forecast the stable congestion distribution in the long run . Specifically our model can explicitly track the path information of the matched drivers and riders by solving the proposed equilibrium model . The model is formulated as variational inequalities due to the non separable cost functions and asymmetric link interactions . We first demonstrate the non uniqueness of mode specific link flows and derive the condition for the uniqueness of link flows . We then derive sufficient conditions for a matching failure . A matching failure occurs if the lowest total inconvenience cost of a pair of rider and driver exceeds a threshold . In this situation matching between the ridesharing supply and demand can not be established by adjusting the compensation scheme . Moreover we derive the sufficient and necessary conditions for the existence of equilibrium with a positive ridesharing ridership . These conditions help operators gain insights into how to appropriately design compensation schemes . We reformulate the variational inequalities as the equivalent mixed complementarity problem and propose a heuristic routing algorithm to identify the feasible routing paths for shared rides that interest both ridesharing drivers and riders . Finally Our numerical experiments show that ridesharing is effective in relieving the overall congestion but leads to high congestion on some links . In the scenarios where the demand into the central business district is high the commuters entering CBD are all better off with ridesharing service . In contrast the commuters traveling to certain non CBD areas are worse off . Our experiments also reveal various path choice behaviors of ridesharing participants . The solo drivers always use the paths with short travel times while the ridesharing drivers tend to use paths with short travel distances . By considering a commission to the platform we demonstrate the regime in which increasing the commission rate improves the platforms revenue without harming the social welfare .

@highlight We develop a path based equilibrium model to explicitly track the path information of the matched ridesharing drivers and riders in road network.
@highlight A matching failure occurs if the lowest total inconvenience cost of a pair of driver and rider exceeds a threshold.
@highlight When the ridership is positive for an OD pair the compensation between this OD pair must fall within a derived interval.
@highlight We propose a heuristic routing algorithm to identify the feasible routing paths for shared rides that interest both ridesharing drivers and riders.
@highlight Numerical experiments suggest that the commuters entering CBD are all better off with ridesharing when the demand into CBD is high.
