 Online platforms for matching supply and demand as part of the sharing economy are becoming increasingly important in practice and have seen a steep increase in academic interest . Especially in the taxi travel industry platforms such as Uber Lyft and Didi Chuxing have become major players . Some of these platforms including Didi Chuxing operate two matching systems Inform where multiple drivers receive ride details and the first to respond is selected and Assign where the platform assigns the driver nearest to the customer . The Inform system allows drivers to select their destinations but the Assign system minimizes driver customer distances . This research is the first to explore how a platform should allocate customer requests to the two systems and set the maximum matching radius with the objective to minimize the overall average waiting times for customers and how taxi drivers select a system depending on their varying degrees of preference for certain destinations . Using approximate queuing analysis we derive the optimal decisions for the platform and drivers . These are applied to real world data from Didi Chuxing revealing the following managerial insights . The optimal radius is 1 3kilometers and is lower during rush hour . For most considered settings it is optimal to allocate relatively few rides to the Inform system . Most interestingly if destination selection becomes more important to the average driver then the platform should not always allocate more requests to the Inform system . Although this may seem counter intuitive allocating too many orders to that system would result in many drivers opting for it leading to very high waiting times in the Assign system .

@highlight First study on online taxi platforms with two systems of operation for drivers.
@highlight As for e.g. Didi Chuxing in real life drivers opt to either be informed about rides or directly assigned.
@highlight We derive the maximum matching radius and optimal allocation of rides over the Inform and Assign systems.
@highlight Empirical results show that only drivers relatively close to a customer should be informed and generally a relatively small fraction of rides should be allocated to the Inform system.
@highlight The platform should not always allocate more requests to the Inform system if destination selection becomes more important for drivers.
