 Time dependent OriginDestination demand flows are fundamental inputs for Dynamic Traffic Assignment systems and real time traffic management . This work introduces a novel state space framework to estimate these demand flows in an online context . Specifically we propose to explicitly include trip chaining behavior within the state space formulation which is solved using the well established Kalman Filtering technique . While existing works already consider structural information and recursive behavior within the online demand estimation problem this information has been always considered at the OD level . In this study we introduce this structural information by explicitly representing trip chaining within the estimation framework . The advantage is twofold . First all trips belonging to the same tour can be jointly calibrated . Second given the estimation during a certain time interval a prediction of the structural deviation over the whole day can be obtained without the need to run additional simulations . The effectiveness of the proposed methodology is demonstrated first on a toy network and then on a large real world network . Results show that the model improves the prediction performance with respect to a conventional Kalman Filtering approach . We also show that on the basis of the estimation of the morning commute the model can be used to predict the evening commute without need of running additional simulations .

@highlight The proposed model brings thus the following practical and scientific contributions.
@highlight A new approach that allows modeling trip chain and activity based demand within e online Dynamic OD Estimation framework.
@highlight Differently from other models in the literature which have been proposed for the offline DODE it does not require a heavy simulation in order to be implemented. Moreover static assignment matrices can be used within the proposed method.
@highlight The proposed approach increases the observability of the demand since correlations between different OD pairs in time and space is explicitly considered.
@highlight The proposed approach helps to have results that are more consistent over the 24h periods.
