 The performance and behaviour of critical infrastructure in case of disruptions is an important topic and we are still lacking of insights . Due to disruptions infrastructure becomes unavailable and may force the trains and passengers to adapt . In this paper we introduce a problem of railway network vulnerability from the perspective of passenger flows and train operations . We propose a new Railway Network Vulnerability Model to assess the vulnerability of the system by finding the critical combination of links which cause the most adverse consequences to passengers and trains . To solve this challenging problem we present a RNVM framework which combines two heuristics based on column and row generation with mixed integer linear programming to efficiently model alternative passenger flows and infrastructure constraints . The developed framework provides the critical combination of links the corresponding passenger flows train routes and timetables . We demonstrate the performance of the RNVM framework on the real world instance of a part of the Dutch railway network . The results show that the RNVM framework can efficiently reassign passenger flows and reroute trains during disruptions . The results also reveal that the critical links are highly demand dependent rather than a static feature of the networks topology . Finally the computation times remain small when increasing the number of disrupted links as well as the size of the passenger demand which allows fast and efficient network vulnerability assessment .

@highlight A new passenger centered vulnerability measure to capture both stranded passengers as well as rerouted ones due to disruptions.
@highlight A new mathematical formulation for assessing vulnerability of passenger railway networks.
@highlight Combination of three different network levels i.e. infrastructure train services and passengers.
@highlight A new framework for solving RNVM combining column generation and row generation based heuristics.
@highlight Real life experiments on a part of Dutch railway network.
