 Container shipping lines operate in a highly competitive market with high demand volatility . Unlike many other industries in which risk averse attitude is dominating it is well known that many CSLs exhibit risk seeking behaviors . In this paper by using the mean risk formulation we analytically study the effects of risk attitude and demand volatility on the service pricing game between two CSLs . We find that the equilibrium prices increase when CSLs can accept more risk and being slightly risk seeking can help maximize the expected profits of both CSLs . We discover the risk attitude convergence effect which theoretically reveals that the optimal risk attitudes for the CSLs move in the same direction . Therefore our research suggests that both CSLs should hire slightly risk seeking managers in a competitive shipping market . In addition we explore the impacts brought by demand volatility and find that the equilibrium prices increase in the demand volatility when CSLs are risk seeking . We uncover that when an individual CSL s risk sensitivity level is small and its rival is risk seeking its own expected profit under the decentralized case could be larger than that in centralized case . Finally for robustness checking of our research findings we investigate the scenarios with multiplicative randomness of demand asymmetric information on risk attitude and multiple competing CSLs and find that our main findings still hold . Counterintuitively in the case with multiplicatively random demand we analytically find that CSLs may not prefer a large market potential when they are risk averse .

@highlight Establish the pricing equilibrium for the risk sensitive container shipping lines CSLs under competition.
@highlight Explore the risk seeking behaviors and show that being risk seeking can do more good than harm.
@highlight Discover the risk attitude convergence effect.
@highlight Prove the robustness of results by exploring different forms of demand distribution asymmetric risk attitude and uncertain spot market price.
