 Some studies consider variable speed limit control as a viable option to prevent traffic breakdown at bottlenecks by limiting the mainline flow with reduced speed limits . However few studies consider the location of the application area as a design variable of the problem . This paper explains why the location of a VSL control area is crucial to prevent the capacity drop phenomenon at lane drop bottlenecks . We first define two types of stationary states congested and uncongested inside a lane drop bottleneck assuming the Lighthill Whitham Richards model with bounded acceleration . In particular the characteristics of these stationary states and their admissible conditions are discussed thoroughly . If the speed limit imposed is low enough the location of the VSL application area is irrelevant to ensure an uncongested stationary state inside the bottleneck . However for a given range of speed limits the location of the VSL application area should be designed carefully to allow for uncongested stationary states and prevent the occurrence of the capacity drop . We formulate an optimization problem and show that contrary to the general belief the larger the speed limit the farther the VSL application area should be from the bottleneck . Finally the results are extended to other types of bottlenecks such as sag or tunnel bottlenecks . To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to analytically identify formulate and solve the optimal location problem for variable speed limit application areas . It makes fundamental contributions to both traffic flow theory and traffic control . Moreover the results presented are of practical relevance because they can help to establish some guidelines for practitioners to implement VSL control strategies .

@highlight Identify formulate and solve optimal location problem for VSL application areas. Formulation and solution for lane drop sag and tunnel bottlenecks.
@highlight Lighthill Whitham Richards model with bounded acceleration BA LWR is used.
@highlight Capacity drop formation depends on speed limits and VSL locations.
@highlight Define admissible conditions for congested and uncongested stationary states.
@highlight Optimal distances of VSL application areas from bottlenecks increase in speed limits.
