 Surge pricing is commonly used in on demand ridesourcing platforms to dynamically balance demand and supply although it is controversial and has long stimulated debate regarding its pros and cons . In practice there is usually a reasonable or legitimate range of prices . However such a constrained surge pricing strategy may fail to balance demand and supply in certain casese.g . even adopting the highest allowed price can not reduce peak period demand to a level at which the market clears without some form of non price rationing . To address this limitation we propose a novel reward scheme integrated with surge pricing Passengers pay an additional amount to a reward account on top of the regular surge price during peak hours then use the balance in their reward account to subsidize trips during off peak hours . We propose models to describe the number of travel requests and the number of active drivers on the platform and characterize the market equilibrium under several assumptions . We compare scenarios with and without the reward scheme from three perspectives passenger utility driver income and platform revenue and profit . We find that in some situations all three stakeholdersi.e . passengers drivers and the platformwill be better off under the reward scheme integrated with surge pricing .

@highlight We propose a novel reward scheme integrated with surge pricing in a ridesouring market.
@highlight Passengers pay an additional amount on top of the regular surge price during peak hours and then use the balance to subsidize trips during off peak hours.
@highlight We present models to describe the number of travel requests and the number of active drivers on the platform and characterize the market equilibrium.
@highlight We compare scenarios with and without the reward scheme from three perspectives passenger utility driver income and platform revenue and profit.
@highlight In some situations all the three stakeholders i.e. passengers drivers and the platform will be better off under the reward scheme integrated with surge pricing.
