 In multinomial response models idiosyncratic variations in the indirect utility are generally modeled using Gumbel or normal distributions . This study makes a strong case to substitute these thin tailed distributions with a t distribution . First we demonstrate that a model with a t distributed error kernel better estimates and predicts preferences especially in class imbalanced datasets . Our proposed specification also implicitly accounts for decision uncertainty behavior i.e . the degree of certainty that decision makers hold in their choices relative to the variation in the indirect utility of any alternative . Second after applying a t distributed error kernel in a multinomial response model for the first time we extend this specification to a generalized continuous multinomial model and derive its full information maximum likelihood estimation procedure . The likelihood involves an open form expression of the cumulative density function of the multivariate t distribution which we propose to compute using a combination of the composite marginal likelihood method and the separation of variables approach . Third we establish finite sample properties of the GCM model with a t distributed error kernel and highlight its superiority over the GCM model with a normally distributed error kernel in a Monte Carlo study . Finally we compare GCM t and GCM N in an empirical setting related to preferences for electric vehicles . We observe that accounting for decision uncertainty behavior in GCM t results in lower elasticity estimates and a higher willingness to pay for improving the EV attributes than those of the GCM N model . These differences are relevant in making policies to expedite the adoption of EVs .

@highlight Propose first multinomial response model with t distributed error kernel robit link 
@highlight Show benefits of robit over probit models decision uncertainty and better model fit
@highlight Extend to joint model of continuous and multinomial responses with robit link GCM t 
@highlight Derive full information maximum likelihood estimation procedure for GCM t model
@highlight Establish finite sample properties of GCM t estimator in a simulation study
@highlight Compare probit and robit links in a study related to adoption of electric vehicles
