 Modeling traffic flow at intersections is essential for the design control and management of intersections . A challenging feature of microscopic modeling vehicular movement at intersections is that drivers can choose among an infinite number of alternative traveling paths and speeds . This makes it fundamentally different from structured straight road sections with lanes . This study proposes a novel method to model the trajectories of vehicles in two dimensional space and speed . Based on optimal control theory it assumes drivers schedule their driving behavior including the steering and acceleration to minimize the predicted costs . The costs contain the running costs which consist of the travel time and driving smoothness and the terminal cost which penalizes the deviations from the desired final state . Different than conventional methods the vehicle motion dynamics are formulated in distance rather than in time . The model is solved by an iterative numerical solution algorithm based on the Minimum Principle of Pontryagin . The descriptive power plausibility and accuracy of the proposed model are investigated by comparing the calculated results under several cases which can be solved from symmetry or analytically . The proposed model is further calibrated and validated using empirical trajectory data and the quality of the predicted trajectory is confirmed . Qualitatively the optimal trajectory changes in the range of the shortest path and smoothest path under different weights of the running cost . The proposed model can be used as a starting point and extended with more considerations of intersection operation in the real world for future applications .

@highlight The trajectory of the manual driving vehicle at intersections was modelled.
@highlight Steering and acceleration were incorporated as model inputs to model 2D motion.
@highlight The travelled distance was chosen as the main independent variable.
@highlight The descriptive power plausibility and accuracy were validated.
@highlight The model was extended with some realism considerations.
