 On demand ride services reshape urban transportation systems human mobility and travelers mode choice behavior . Compared to the traditional street hailing taxi an on demand ride services platform analyzes ride requests of passengers and coordinates real time supply and demand with dynamic operational strategies in the ride sourcing market . To test the impact of dynamic optimization strategies on the ride sourcing market this paper proposes a dynamic vacant car passenger meeting model . In this model the accumulative arrival rate and departure rate of passengers and vacant cars determine the waiting number of passengers and vacant cars while the waiting number of passengers and vacant cars in turn influence the meeting rate . The departure rate means the rate at which passengers and vacant cars match up and start a paid trip . Compared with classic equilibrium models this model can be utilized to characterize the influence of short term variances and disturbances of current demand and supply on the waiting numbers of passengers and vacant cars . Using the proposed meeting model we optimize dynamic strategies under two objective functions i.e . platform revenue maximization and social welfare maximization while the driver s profit is guaranteed above a certain level . We also propose an algorithm based on approximate dynamic programming to solve the sequential dynamic optimization problem . The results show that our algorithm can effectively improve the objective function of the multi period problem compared with the myopic algorithm . A broader range of surge pricing and commission rate and the introduction of incentives are helpful to achieve better optimization results . The dynamic optimization strategies help the on demand ride services platform efficiently adjust supply and demand resources and achieve specific optimization goals .

@highlight Make an initial attempt to utilize a meeting model to characterize the vacant car passenger dynamic matching properties.
@highlight Simultaneously consider surge pricing commission rate and incentives for passengers drivers.
@highlight Optimize different operational strategies for different goals e.g. platform revenue and social welfare.
@highlight Develop an effective non myopic algorithm based on approximate dynamic programming ADP .
@highlight Numerical results show that a broader range of surge pricing and commission rate and the introduction of incentives are helpful to achieve better optimization results.
