 With the recent rapid growth of technology enabled mobility services ride sourcing platforms such as Uber and DiDi have launched commercial on demand ride pooling programs that allow drivers to serve more than one passenger request in each ride . Without requiring the prearrangement of trip schedules these programs match on demand passenger requests with vehicles that have vacant seats . Ride pooling programs are expected to offer benefits for both individual passengers in the form of cost savings and for society in the form of traffic alleviation and emission reduction . In addition to some exogenous variables and environments for ride sourcing market such as city size and population density three key decisions govern a platform s efficiency for ride pooling services trip fare vehicle fleet size and allowable detour time . An appropriate discounted fare attracts an adequate number of passengers for ride pooling and thus increases the successful pairing rate while an appropriate allowable detour time prevents passengers from giving up ride pooling service . This paper develops a mathematical model to elucidate the complex relationships between the variables and decisions involved in a ride pooling market . We find that the monopoly optimum social optimum and second best solutions in both ride pooling and non pooling markets are always in a normal regime rather than the

@highlight Proposes a model to characterize the equilibrium in on demand ride sourcing market.
@highlight Identifies monopoly and social optimums of non pooling and ride pooling markets.
@highlight Monopoly optimum social optimum and second best solutions in both ride pooling and non pooling markets are always in a normal regime rather than the wild goose chase regime.
@highlight Monopoly optimum social optimum and second best solution trip fares in a ride pooling market are lower than that in a non pooling market under certain conditions.
@highlight A unit decrease in trip fare in a ride pooling market attracts more passengers due to a reduced actual detour time.
