 This paper models and solves the optimal allocation pricing of reservable parking resources and the pricing of unreservable parking resources respectively . For reservable parking facility a MP DGS mechanism and combinatorial system are adopted to maximize the social surplus through optimizing the allocation pricing of parking permits . As a result it is found that the proposed approaches not only simplify the users bidding procedures but also ensure the users express their preference truthfully even under the situation of non optimal parking permits allocation in homogeneous case it is theoretically demonstrated that the MP DGS mechanism is more efficient than the traditional mechanisms in the worst case scenario in heterogeneous case time dependent parking permits are taken into account . The ranking of the algorithm time complexity in the worst case scenario is that direct method evolutionary method Leonard mechanism VCG mechanism and the combinatorial system not only solves out the optimal allocation pricing results effectively but also ensures the optimal results can be obtained in a shorter time . In addition for unreservable parking facility we formulate a dynamic social optimum as a stochastic control problem and then obtain a region based optimal dynamic parking pricing . Through theoretical analysis it is revealed that depending on the realization of the queue length due to the cruising for parking the region based optimal dynamic parking pricing can be divided into two patterns furthermore each pattern results in a bang bang control .

@highlight Auction based mechanisms are proposed to maximize the social surplus through optimizing the allocation pricing of reservable parking resources.
@highlight The proposed mechanisms not only simplify the users bidding procedures but also ensure that users express their preferences truthfully even in the case of non optimal allocation of parking permits.
@highlight It is theoretically demonstrateed that the computational efficiencies of the proposed mechanisms are much higher than that of traditional methods in the worst case scenario.
@highlight Some numerical experiments in urban scale networks are presented to confirm the analytical results about reservable parking resources.
@highlight For unreservable parking facilities a region based optimal dynamic parking pricing is obtained which results in a bang bang control.
