 The paper proposes an eco cruise control strategy for urban public transport buses . The aim of the velocity control is ensuring timetable adherence while considering upstream queue lengths at traffic lights in a probabilistic way . The contribution of the paper is twofold . First the shockwave profile model is extended to capture the stochastic nature of traffic queue lengths . The model is adequate to describe frequent traffic state interruptions at signalized intersections . Based on the distribution function of stochastic traffic volume demand the randomness in queue length wave fronts and vehicle numbers are derived . Then an outlook is provided on its applicability as a full scale urban traffic network model . Second a shrinking horizon model predictive controller is proposed for ensuring timetable reliability . The intention is to calculate optimal velocity commands based on the current position and desired arrival time of the bus while considering upcoming delays due to red signals and eventual queues . The above proposed stochastic traffic model is incorporated in a rolling horizon optimization via chance constraining . In the optimization probabilistic guarantees are formulated to minimize delay due to standstill in queues at signalized intersections . Optimization results are analyzed from two particular aspects feasibility and closed loop performance point of views . The novel stochastic profile model is tested in a high fidelity traffic simulator context . Comparative simulation results show the viability and importance of stochastic bounds in urban trajectory design . The proposed algorithm yields smoother bus trajectories at an urban corridor suggesting energy savings compared to benchmark control strategies .

@highlight We formulate a probabilistic traffic model that can describe traffic flow states at signalized intersections.
@highlight We propose a chance constrained decentralized shrinking horizon model predictive control MPC algorithm for public transport bus timetable reliability.
@highlight With the help of the sampling and discarding method the tradeoff between performance and feasibility is evaluated for the predicted bus trajectories.
@highlight We analyze the proposed methodology in a microscopic traffic simulation environment.
