 The benefits of congestion pricing are examined with a spatially detailed computable general equilibrium model of the Greater LA region . The model treats choices of roads on a network of driving or public transit of residence and job location of non work trip patterns of housing type and size vacancies and new construction production interindustry trade and exports . The aggregate benefit of pricing LA County road congestion increases 2.7 fold when the toll revenue is recycled to cut the income tax of the poorer LA County workers while maintaining region wide tax revenue neutrality . Consumers get 66 of the aggregate benefit and landlords 41 while importers suffer losses equal to 7 of the aggregate benefit . Gross regional product increases by 1.34 . The aggregate benefit changes negligibly when the toll revenue is recycled to cut sales taxes instead of the income tax but gross product still rises by 0.6 . Under the sales tax cut consumers importers and landlords benefit more evenly than under the income tax cut but with the property tax cut nearly all of the cut is capitalized into property values .

@highlight The first analysis of metropolitan wide social marginal pricing of road congestion with a spatially detailed computable general equilibrium model of the Los Angeles region.
@highlight The Pigouvian congestion tolls are no more than 34 cents per mile per day and as high as 4.20 and as low as zero and 84 cents per trip on average.
@highlight The total annual economic benefit is 236 per consumer if only LA County roads are priced or 350 if all roads are priced with annual toll revenue of 3.02 billion and 4.73 billion respectively amounting to 3.54 and 5.55 respectively of the total taxes on income sales property and wages.
@highlight Revenues from congestion pricing LA County only or whole region are 0.83 and 1.31 of average year 2000 consumer incomes and 0.34 and 0.53 of the regional gross product respectively.
@highlight Recycling the toll revenue by cutting the income taxes of the lowest income LA County workers yields a second dividend that raises regional product by 1.34 and almost triples the welfare benefit the second dividend raises regional product by 0.6 when the sales tax is cut and is essentially zero when the property tax is cut.
