 We study a less than truckload transportation service procurement in the waste collection industry where shippers make small volume requests and a single carrier optimizes the collection routes to realize maximum profitability . In our proposed auction based waste collection synchronization mechanism the carrier plays a role as the auctioneer to decide on who wins the bids and the corresponding payments while the shippers act as the bidders . This is attributed to the carrier centric structure where a carrier has to consolidate multiple LTL shipping requests so as to provide cost effective services . Furthermore a single shipper may generate multiple types of waste and highly desires for a synchronous service requiring multiple vehicles dedicated for different waste types to arrive almost simultaneously . The synchronization is beneficial to prevent repeated handling and reduce disruption caused to the minimum . The synchronization requirements are innovatively factored by incorporating time windows into each customer bid . The A WCS mechanism can encourage truthful bidding from shippers and obtain fair payments for both sides therefore can benefit the market in the long run . A WCS problems are extremely difficult to solve due to the integration of two combinatorial problems . We address the A WCS with a two layered algorithm where the variable neighborhood search is purposed to search auction allocations in the upper layer and tabu search is conducted to generate efficient vehicle routes in the lower layer . The capability of our algorithm is demonstrated by an extensive computational study comparing with a number of state of the art exact and heuristic approaches . Finally a number of managerial implications for the practitioners are obtained with insights into the impacts caused by changes in market size task complexity customer distribution pattern and auction frequency .

@highlight A less than truckload LTL transportation service procurement TSP in the waste collection industry is studied.
@highlight A one sided VCG auction mechanism is proposed with the central carrier being the auctioneer and shippers being the bidders.
@highlight A two layered variable neighborhood tabu search algorithm is devised to solve the problem.
@highlight A number of managerial implications are obtained.
