 The regulation of a monopolistic public transit operator whose marginal cost is unknown to the regulator is studied in this paper . We contribute to the transit regulation literature by presenting an incentive compatible regulatory policy with consideration of the decision interactions between the regulator and transit operator under asymmetric information . The regulator only has some subjective prior probability distribution for the unknown marginal cost before designing regulatory policies to maximize the expected social welfare over the unknown cost . The operator with privately held cost information optimizes its fare and headway decisions subject to regulatory policies . The proposed IC policy is derived analytically which gives the operator no incentive to misrepresent its cost . We compare regulations under symmetric information versusasymmetric information and measure the deadweight loss due to the information asymmetry . The proposed IC policy is also compared with a benchmark policy which is based on the cost expected by the regulator to demonstrate its superiority . We find solutions under asymmetric information can be reproduced by solving the regulation problem under symmetric information with an enlarged marginal cost a regulator adopting the benchmark policy may set fare and headway limits above the levels selected by a profit maximizing monopolistic operator . This study improves the state of the artin public transit regulation by presenting an effective tool for designing IC regulatory policies .

@highlight Models the decision interactions between the regulator and transit operator under asymmetric information.
@highlight Proposes incentive compatible IC regulation giving the operator no incentive to misrepresent its cost.
@highlight IC policy can be reproduced from regulation under symmetric information with an enlarged marginal cost.
@highlight The proposed IC policy outperforms a benchmark policy based on the expectation of the unknown cost.
@highlight It is detrimental to design policies based on the average case without considering all possible scenarios.
