 Fixed time signal control is widely used in the real world due to its low cost of implementation . Repeated signal cycles with the same phase structure are applied in the existing fixed time signal control schemes . However such signal schemes do not always achieve the best performance especially when traffic demand is unbalanced . The inclusion of sub cycles in one cycle provides a potential solution in this situation . This study proposes a time slot based signal scheme model with a generalized cycle structure for fixed time signal control at isolated intersections . The proposed signal scheme can generate sub cycles with different phase structures . It optimizes the number of sub cycles in one cycle as well as the phase sequence cycle length and green splits in each sub cycle . Certain phases may be skipped in partial sub cycles . Nonlinear programming models are formulated to minimize average vehicle delay and maximize intersection capacity for under and over saturated demand . Solution algorithms for the two nonlinear models are developed by solving a series of mixed integer quadratic programming models and mixed integer linear programming models respectively . The numerical studies validate the advantages of proposed signal scheme in terms of intersection capacity and average vehicle delay . The sensitivity analyses show that 1 a long maximum green time can enable the conventional dual ring eight phase structure to handle unbalanced demand from the perspective of intersection capacity 2 the time slot number of 6 or 7 is suggested considering both the solution optimality and the model complexity .

@highlight Propose a time slot based signal scheme with a generalized cycle structure for fixed time control at isolated intersections which generates sub cycles within one cycle.
@highlight Optimize the number of sub cycles in one cycle as well as the phase sequence cycle length and green splits in each sub cycle.
@highlight Formulate nonlinear programming models to minimize average vehicle delay and maximize intersection capacity for under and over saturated demand respectively.
@highlight Design solution algorithms for the two nonlinear models by solving a series of mixed integer quadratic programming MIQP models and mixed integer linear programming MILP models respectively.
