 In the foreseeable future the traffic stream will be likely mixed with connected automated vehicles and regular vehicles . In the mixed traffic environment when following a RV due to the lack of vehicle to vehicle communications it may take longer time for a CAV to sense and react than a human driver which results in longer time headway and the loss of highway throughput . To address such a connectivity gap this paper investigates an infrastructure based solution i.e . the deployment of roadside units to help CAVs in the heterogeneous traffic stream . Specifically it is envisioned that these roadside units can sense vehicles in their coverage areas and provide the beyond line of sight motion information to CAVs to empower them to react proactively as they would do when following other CAVs . This paper is devoted to the analysis of the impacts of this type of roadside units at a strategic planning stage . In doing so we first derive an analytical link performance function to capture their impact on the link capacity and travel time and then develop a network equilibrium model to gauge their effect on travelers route choices and thus the flow distribution of both RVs and CAVs across the whole network . This modeling development will allow us to conduct a cost benefit analysis for a given deployment plan of roadside units . For fair analyses we further develop an optimization model to determine the optimal deployment plan for a given budget while focusing on the worst case of its impact because the flow distribution resulting from our network equilibrium model is not unique . Such a model provides a conservative estimate of the benefit brought by roadside units . Lastly we offer case studies to demonstrate the models and unveil the potential of such an infrastructure based solution .

@highlight Deployment of roadside units to close connectivity gap in mixed traffic with CAVs.
@highlight Roadside units provide the beyond line of sight motion information to CAVs.
@highlight Capturing the benefit of roadside units on network performance for strategic planning.
@highlight A deployment model developed to provide a conservative estimate of the benefit.
@highlight Cost and benefit analysis unveils the potential of such an infrastructure based solution.
