 The biggest challenge of analysing network traffic dynamics of large scale networks is its complexity and pattern interpretability . In this work we present a new computationally efficient method inspired by human vision to reduce the dimensions of a large scale network and describe the traffic conditions with a compact scalable and interpretable custom feature vector . This is done by extracting pockets of congestion that encompass connected 3D subnetworks as 3D shapes . We then parameterize these 3D shapes as 2D projections and construct parsimonious feature vectors from these projections . There are various applications of these feature vectors such as revealing the day to day regularity of the congestion patterns and building a classification model that allows us to predict travel time from any origin to any destination in the network . We demonstrate that our method achieves a 44 accuracy improvement when compared against the consensus method for travel prediction of an urban network of Amsterdam . Our method also outperforms historical average methods especially for days with severe congestion . Furthermore we demonstrate the scalability of the approach by applying the method on the entire Dutch highway network and show that the feature vector was able to encapsulate the network dynamics with a 93 prediction accuracy . There are many paths to further refine and improve the method . The compact form of the feature vector allows us to efficiently enrich it with more information such as context weather and event without increasing the computational complexity .

@highlight Reduced the traffic dynamics of a large scale network into a small feature vector.
@highlight Feature vector is composed of congestion pockets parameterized using shapes and its variations.
@highlight Demonstrated on the urban network of Amsterdam and the entire Dutch highway network.
@highlight Achieved a 44 travel time prediction improvement for the Amsterdam network.
@highlight Encapsulate the entire Dutch highway network dynamics with a 93 prediction accuracy.
