 Real time traffic crash prediction has been a major concern in the development of Collision Avoidance Systems along with other intelligent and resilient transportation technologies . There has been a pronounced progress in the use of machine learning models for crash events assessment by the transportation safety research community in recent years . However little attention has been paid so far to evaluating real time crash occurrences within information fusion systems . The main aim of this paper is to design and validate an ensemble fusion framework founded on the use of various base classifiers that operate on fused features and a Meta classifier that learns from base classifiers results to acquire more performant crash predictions . A data driven approach was adopted to investigate the potential of fusing four real time and continuous categories of features namely physiological signals driver maneuvering inputs vehicle kinematics and weather covariates in order to systematically identify the crash strongest precursors through feature selection techniques . Moreover a resampling based scheme including Bagging and Boosting is conducted to generate diversity in learner combinations comprising Bayesian Learners k Nearest Neighbors Support Vector Machine and Multilayer Perceptron . To ensure that the proposed framework provide powerful and stable decisions an imbalance learning strategy was adopted using the Synthetic Minority Oversampling TEchnique to address the class imbalance problem as crash events usually occur in rare instances . The findings show that Boosting depicted the highest performance within the fusion scheme and can accomplish a maximum of 93.66 F1 score and 94.81 G mean with Nave Bayes Bayesian Networks k NN and SVM with MLP as the Meta classifier . To the best of our knowledge this work presents the first attempt at establishing a fusing framework on the basis of data from the four aforementioned categories and fusion models while accounting for class imbalance . Overall the method and findings provide new insights into crash prediction and can be harnessed as a promising tool to improve intervention efforts related to traffic intelligent transportation systems .

@highlight Design and validate a fusion framework for real time crash prediction.
@highlight Information fusion strategy based on four distinct categories of features.
@highlight Diversity generation using four learners BL kNN SVM and MLP.
@highlight Boosting and Bagging with Meta Classifier for more robust outcomes.
@highlight An Imbalance learning founded on SMOTE for crash events prediction.
