 With the increasing activities of unmanned aircraft near airports severe challenges have emerged regarding airport safety management . This paper presents a brand new data driven based approach to accurately design the geofencing for UAs around an airport focusing on midair collision risk between commercial flights and small UAs which is considered as the most important hazard . In premise prevalent trajectory extraction from real flight tracks is realized based on an advanced and general model taking the advantage of describing turning legs which is more popular in terminal area . As a key solution a Gauss Laplace composite distribution is provided for rigorous estimation of flight track distribution in line with the extracted prevalent trajectory . Based on those airport geofencing is proposed consisting of an inner critical area and an outer buffer area . This approach can be adaptive for different traffic patterns of an airport . The buffer area is an extension range to help the execution of some defense measures . Results of an empirical study for setting up geofencing for small UAs around Chongqing Jiangbei International Airport show the superiority of the proposed approach which indicates that it can provide practical application especially varying from different target level of safety .

@highlight Proposed approach shows great advantages in terms of its accuracy with adaptive and executive functions. Compared with current methods which are too simple and rough we design a more accurate airport geofencing with an inner critical area and an outer buffer area by estimation of flight track distribution in line with extracted prevalent trajectory. This geofencing is adaptive for different traffic patterns. Furthermore the buffer area is deliberately designed as an extension range to help flexible execution of some defense measures.
@highlight An advanced prevalent trajectory model APTM is provided to determine the prevalent trajectory based on real flight tracks. The APTM is different from existing prevalent trajectory extraction methods such as the clustering methods especially in the point that it can match the real tracks better when dealing with turning situations. This feature is very important considering lots of turning requirements in terminal flights and its the foundation of the operation compliance of our method.
@highlight To decrease lateral estimation errors between the prevalent trajectory and real flight tracks we utilize a Gaussian Laplace composite distribution instead of solo Gaussian distribution. We show that the composite distribution is valid in estimating rigorous flight track distribution.
