 We present an approach to assess the risk taken by on road vehicles within the framework of artificial field theory envisioned for safety analysis and design of driving support automation applications . Here any obstacle to the subject vehicle is treated as a finite scalar risk field that is formulated in the predicted configuration space of the subject vehicle . The driving risk estimate is the strength of the risk field at the subject vehicles future location . This risk field is formulated as the product of two factors collision probability and expected crash energy . The collision probability with neighboring vehicles is estimated based on probabilistic motion predictions . The risk can be assessed for a single time step or over multiple future time steps depending on the required temporal resolution of the estimates . We verified the single step approach in three near crash situations from a naturalistic dataset and in cut in and hard braking scenarios with simulation and showed the application of the multi step approach in selecting the safest path in a lane drop section . The risk descriptions from the proposed approach qualitatively reflect the narration of the situation and are in general consistent with Time To Collision . Compared to current surrogate measures of safety the proposed risk estimate provides a better basis to assess the driving safety of an individual vehicle by considering the uncertainty over the future ambient traffic state and magnitude of expected crash consequences . The proposed driving risk model can be used as a component of intelligent vehicle safety applications and as a comprehensive surrogate measure for assessing traffic safety .

@highlight A probabilistic approach for highway driving risk assessment.
@highlight Static objects formulated as potential fields and surrouding vehicles as kinematic fields.
@highlight Uncertainties of surrounding vehicles captured by longitudinal and lateral acceleration distributions.
@highlight Model validated with empirical data and simulation.
@highlight Potential applications in safety impact assessment and online trajectory planning of intelligent vehicle systems.
