 Lane changing is one of the complex driving tasks that depends on the number of vehicles objectives and lanes . A driver often needs to respond to a lane changing request of a lane changer which is a function of their personality traits and the current driving conditions . A connected environment is expected to assist during the lane changing decision making process by increasing situational awareness of surrounding traffic through vehicle to vehicle communication and vehicle to infrastructure communication . Although the majority of lane changing decision making components in a traditional environment has been frequently investigated our understanding of drivers interactions during the lane changing decision making process in a connected environment remains elusive due to the novelty of a connected environment and the scarcity of relevant data . As such this study examines drivers responses to lane changing requests in a connected environment using the CARRS Q Advanced Driving Simulator . Seventy eight participants responded to the lane changing request of a lane changer under two randomised driving conditions baseline and connected environment . A segmentation based approach is employed to extract drivers responses to the lane changing request and subsequently estimate their response time from trajectory data . Additionally drivers response times are modelled using a random parameter accelerated failure time hazard based duration model . Results reveal that drivers tend to be more cooperative in response to a lane changing request in the connected environment compared with the baseline condition whereby they tend to accelerate to avoid the lane changing request . The AFT model suggests that on average drivers response times are shorter in the connected environment implying that drivers respond to the lane changing request faster in the presence of driving aids . However at the individual level connected environments impact on drivers response times is mixed as drivers response times may increase or decrease in the connected environment compared to the baseline condition for instance we find that female drivers have lower response times in the connected environment than that of male drivers . Overall this study finds that drivers in connected environment on average take less time to respond and appear to be more cooperative and thus are less likely to be engaged in safetycritical events .

@highlight Examined drivers responses to a lane changing request in a connected environment.
@highlight Drivers are more cooperative in response to a lane changing request in a connected environment.
@highlight Modelled response time using a random parameter accelerated failure time hazard based duration model.
@highlight Response times on average are shorter in a connected environment.
@highlight At the individual level response time may increase or decrease in a connected environment.
