 A model used for velocity control during car following is proposed based on reinforcement learning . To optimize driving performance a reward function is developed by referencing human driving data and combining driving features related to safety efficiency and comfort . With the developed reward function the RL agent learns to control vehicle speed in a fashion that maximizes cumulative rewards through trials and errors in the simulation environment . To avoid potential unsafe actions the proposed RL model is incorporated with a collision avoidance strategy for safety checks . The safety check strategy is used during both model training and testing phases which results in faster convergence and zero collisions . A total of 1 341 car following events extracted from the Next Generation Simulation dataset are used to train and test the proposed model . The performance of the proposed model is evaluated by the comparison with empirical NGSIM data and with adaptive cruise control algorithm implemented through model predictive control . The experimental results show that the proposed model demonstrates the capability of safe efficient and comfortable velocity control and outperforms human drivers in that it 1 has larger TTC values than those of human drivers 2 can maintain efficient and safe headways around 1.2s and 3 can follow the lead vehicle comfortably with smooth acceleration . Compared with the MPC based ACC algorithm the proposed model has better performance in terms of safety comfort and especially running speed during testing . The results indicate that the proposed approach could contribute to the development of better autonomous driving systems . Source code of this paper can be found at

@highlight Reinforcement learning for safe efficient comfortable vehicle velocity control.
@highlight A reward function is developed by combining driving features.
@highlight Collision avoidance strategy is incorporated for safety and faster convergence.
@highlight The model outperforms human drivers and has faster running speed than MPC.
