 Pre tactically managing the imbalances of the network and organizing the resources of the airspace is one of the main objectives of Dynamic Demand Capacity Balancing . Introducing Short term Air Traffic Flow and Capacity Management measures such as minor ground delays or slight speed adjustments applied to a selected number of flights on the day of operations supports the dDCB process by reducing the traffic complexity and the probability of Air Traffic Controllers interventions . This paper introduces a rolling horizon methodology for detecting concurrence events analysing their trajectory interdependencies and applying a strategic mitigation measure that shifts the Estimated Take Off Time within the assigned Calculated Take Off Time window . The methodology proposes a collaborative decision making process for a better coordination of departures from airports feeding airspace volumes with high air traffic demand . The experimental part of this paper aims at showing the potential benefits of such a STAM procedure by applying the methodology to distribute the demand of a sector located in the London Terminal Manoeuvring Area . Experiments have considered regulated traffic scenarios where ETOT were allocated in order to reduce departure time uncertainties . Lastly it is analysed the impact of the parameters used by the methodology to calculate the mitigation measures safe separation criteria look ahead time and number of coordinated airports .

@highlight New departure synchronization mechanism in a Multi Airport system to reduce the probability of separation minima infringement.
@highlight Airspace digitalization for efficient potential concurrence event detection and mitigation.
@highlight New interdependency metrics for reducing downstream domino effects in ATM.
@highlight Rolling horizon methodology for detecting concurrence events analysing their trajectory interdependencies and applying a strategic mitigation measure that shifts the Estimated Take Off Time ETOT within the assigned Calculated Take Off Time CTOT window.
@highlight Use Constraint Programming models supporting optimal mitigation measures.
@highlight Experimental work showing the potential benefits of such a STAM procedures by applying the methodology to distribute the demand of a sector located in the London Terminal Manoeuvring Area LTMA .
