 Although mixed traffic including both autonomous vehicles and human driven vehicles is expected to prevail in the foreseeable future our current understanding of the longitudinal characteristics of mixed traffic is limited and in particular lacks evidence from field experiments . To bridge this gap we designed and conducted a set of field experiments to reveal differences in car following behaviors between a human driver following AV and following HV on both constant speed traffic characteristics with discrete speeds and dynamic car following behaviors with continuous speeds in both the indifferentiable and differentiable appearance settings of the AV . We recruited 10 drivers for the experiment 14 runs for each driver and collected position and speed data of the tested vehicles along their complete trajectories based on vehicle gaps headways and standard deviations of vehicle speed . A K means clustering algorithm was applied to classify drivers based on their responses in following AV vs. following HV with both constant speed and dynamic speed characteristics . The analyses of the differentiable appearance setting show that different drivers exhibit different behaviors in following AV vs. following HV some are AV believers some are AV skeptics and the others are insensitive . Yet in the indifferentiable appearance setting there is no significant difference between following a lead AV and following a lead HV . This reveals that drivers response to the lead vehicle depends on their subjective trusts on AV technologies rather than the actual driving behavior . The results suggest that depending on the characteristics and composition of the drivers classic car following behavior in pure HV traffic may need to be updated for modeling mixed traffic in the near future .

@highlight Revealing differences between a human driver following AV and following HV.
@highlight Considering both constant speed traffic and dynamic car following behaviors.
@highlight Proposing a driver classification approach to separate different driving behaviors.
