 The growing demand for urban mobility highlights the need for relevant and sustainable solutions in cities worldwide . Thus we develop and implement a framework to analyze the systemic impacts of future urban mobility trends and policies . We build on prior work in classifying the worlds cities into 12 urban typologies that represent distinct land use and behavioral characteristics by introducing a generalized approach for creating a detailed simulatable prototype city that is representative of a given typology . We then generate and simulate two auto dependent prototype cities via a state of the art agent based platform SimMobility for integrated demand microsimulation and supply mesoscopic simulation . We demonstrate the framework by analyzing the impacts of automated mobility on demand implementation strategies in the cities based on demand congestion energy consumption and emissions outcomes . Our results show that the introduction of AMoD cannibalizes mass transit while increasing vehicle kilometers traveled and congestion . In sprawling auto dependent cities with low transit penetration the congestion and energy consumption effects under best case assumptions are similar regardless of whether AMoD competes with or complements mass transit . In dense auto dependent cities with moderate transit modeshare the integration of AMoD with transit yields better outcomes in terms of VKT and congestion . Such cities can not afford to disinvest in mass transit as this would result in unsustainable outcomes . Overall this framework can provide insights into how AMoD can be sustainably harnessed not only in low density and high density auto dependent cities but also in other typologies .

@highlight Prototype cities generated from two auto dependent typologies.
@highlight High fidelity demand and supply simulation of automated on demand mobility scenarios.
@highlight Application of activity agent based simulator SimMobility with energy impacts.
@highlight Insights for future on demand mobility in sparse and dense auto dependent cities.
