 Passengers alighting and boarding process in metro stations has attracted increasing research attention since it has significant influence on the platform passenger distribution as well as the train dwell time . In this study a field survey was firstly performed in a densely populated metro station at downtown area in Hong Kong to observe passengers alighting and boarding characteristics and collect sample data . One commonly existing phenomenon is found that boarding passengers start to get aboard even when there are alighting passengers still inside the metro carriage . This is defined as passengers non compliance behaviors in this paper . In addition time indicators are defined to measure the alighting and boarding efficiency . Then a microscopic pedestrian simulation model based on the Social Force Model is proposed to simulate the passengers alighting and boarding patterns at metro platform . The verification result shows the good applicability of the proposed model to simulate the actual situation . Finally several simulation tests are conducted to explore the impacts that passengers non compliance behaviors have on the alighting and boarding efficiency in different passenger volume conditions . The simulation result shows that higher level of passengers non compliance behaviors leads to longer passengers alighting duration and boarding duration but the influence on the overall transaction time is related to different passenger volume conditions . Thus metro station facility could apply different alighting and boarding rules in different passenger volume conditions to increase alighting and boarding efficiency .

@highlight Passengers non compliance behavior is defined and observed.
@highlight Critical time indicators are defined to measure the alighting and boarding efficiency.
@highlight A simulation model is proposed to simulate passengers alighting and boarding process at metro platform.
@highlight Effects of Passengers non compliance behaviors under different passenger volume conditions are analyzed.
@highlight Different alighting and boarding rules could be applied to increase alighting and boarding efficiency.
