 Vehicular platooning requires an open access environment of vehicle communications to enable cooperating connected automated vehicles to share their travel information . However the open access environment makes the cooperating platoon CAVs vulnerable to cyberattacks causing concerns on traffic safety and mobility . So far due to the lack of analytical models integrating malicious effects of manipulated information into CAV dynamics we have limited knowledge on CAV platoon performance under cyberattack . It necessities a modeling framework to support a comprehensive analysis of the CAV platoon performance in a capricious travel environment . This study seeks to bridge this critical gap from the following three aspects . First we review potential safety related cyberattacks faced by CAVs related to manipulation of vehicle position speed and acceleration . Based on the review these cyberattacks are categorized into three types bogus messages replay delay and collusion attack . Second we develop a generalized vehicle dynamics model that accounts for the cyberattack effects on CAV dynamics . The proposed model labeled cooperative intelligent driver model integrates the dynamic communication topological structure to enable the analysis of effects of manipulated information on CAV dynamics . The dynamic communication structure is a time varying function which is determined by the communication range and the distance between two vehicles . Upon the proposed CIDM the third aspect focuses on simulation analysis of CAV platoon safety and efficiency under cyberattacks which demonstrate the cyberattack effects at the platoon level . This study contributes to the fundamental understanding of CAV platoon dynamics under cyberattacks and lays a foundation to enhance the cybersecurity of CAV systems .

@highlight Propose a cooperative platoon vehicles dynamics model to analyze cyberattack effects.
@highlight Apply a bi layer structure to capture the spread of malicious messages.
@highlight Incorporate a dynamic communication topology to factor cyberattack effects.
@highlight Conduct simulation to illustrate the cyberattack effects on CAV platoon dynamics.
