 In vehicle longitudinal control improved comfort and reduced operation workload for human drivers are achieved with the ACC which still requires the driver to maintain full attention on monitoring meanwhile the risk of distraction and fatigue rises resulting from the long term supervising task which has a strong impact on the successful takeover . The key point to make full use of ACC advantages and make up humans weakness on supervising task is the reasonable arrangement of control time of ACC and human driver . In this paper an MPC based optimized switching strategy of longitudinal driving authority transition is proposed which aims to provide proper advice for human drivers to handover and takeover control authority through minimizing the overall index consisted of the operation workload fuel consumption takeover risk and tracking errors . In addition a new driver longitudinal model considering actual reaction time delay and insensitive distance perception of human drivers is proposed as well which combines with ACC to constitute a typical switched control system called the switched driving model as the predictive model for MPC . The stable condition of the new driver longitudinal model is derived by using describing function method and a sufficient condition to ensure steady switched system is given by using the Lyapunov method and LMI approach . The results of simulator experiments show that the new driver model describes the car following behavior of real human driver better . Whats more the simulation results demonstrate that the performance index of switched driving is smaller than the human driving and ACC driving only and the optimization time is short enough to meet the requirement of engineering practice .

@highlight A new driver model is developed from the view of human factors.
@highlight An MPC based optimized switched driving strategy is proposed.
@highlight The simulator experiment is conducted to verify the new driver longitudinal model.
@highlight The performance index of switched driving is smaller than the human and ACC driving.
@highlight The real time of algorithm can meet the requirement of engineering practice.
