 The Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram describes the relation of average network flow density and speed in urban networks . It can be estimated based on empirical or simulation data or approximated analytically . Two main analytical approximation methods to derive the MFD for arterial roads and urban networks exist at the moment . These are the method of cuts and related approaches as well as the stochastic approximation . This paper systematically evaluates these methods including their most recent advancements for the case of an urban arterial MFD . Both approaches are evaluated based on a traffic data set for a segment of an arterial in the city of Munich Germany . This data set includes loop detector and signal data for a typical working day . It is found that the deterministic MoC finds a more accurate upper bound for the MFD for the studied case . The estimation error of the stochastic method is about three times higher than the one of the deterministic method . However the SA outperforms the MoC in approximating the free flow branch of the MFD . The analysis of the discrepancies between the empirical and the analytical MFDs includes an investigation of the measurement bias and an in depth sensitivity study of signal control and public transport operation related input parameters . This study is conducted as a Monte Carlo Simulation based on a Latin Hypercube sampling . Interestingly it is found that applying the MoC for a high number of feasible green to cycle ratios predicts the empirical MFD well . Overall it is concluded that the availability of signal data can improve the analytical approximation of the MFD even for a highly inhomogeneous arterial .

@highlight Compares two analytical MFD approximation methods to empirical data.
@highlight Studies the impact of signal control and public transport related model parameters.
@highlight The method of cuts estimates a more accurate arterial capacity.
@highlight The stochastic approximation accurately predicts the free flow branch of the empirical MFD.
