 With growing consumer demand and expectations companies are attempting to achieve cost efficient and faster delivery operations . The integration of autonomous vehicles such as drones in the last mile network design can curtail many operational challenges and provide a competitive advantage . This paper deals with the problem of delivering orders to a set of customer locations using multiple drones that operate in conjunction with a single truck . To take advantage of the drone fleet the delivery tasks are parallelized by concurrently dispatching the drones from a truck parked at a focal point to the nearby customer locations . Hence the key decisions to be optimized are the partitioning of delivery locations into small clusters identifying a focal point per cluster and routing the truck through all focal points such that the customer orders in each cluster are fulfilled either by a drone or truck . In contrast to prior studies that tackle this problem using multi phase sequential procedures this paper presents mathematical programming models to jointly optimize all the decisions involved . We also consider two polices for choosing a cluster focal point restricting it to one of the customer locations and allowing it to be anywhere in the delivery area . Since the models considering unrestricted focal points are computationally expensive an unsupervised machine learning based heuristic algorithm is proposed to accelerate the solution time . Initially we treat the problem as a single objective by independently minimizing either the total cost or delivery completion time . Subsequently the two conflicting objectives are considered together for obtaining the set of best trade off solutions . An extensive computational study is conducted to investigate the impacts of restricting the focal points and the influence of adopting a joint optimization method instead of a sequential approach . Finally several key insights are obtained to aid the logistics practitioners in decision making .

@highlight New optimization problem for last mile delivery using multiple drones and a truck.
@highlight Integrated approach for customer location clustering and truck drone routing.
@highlight Mathematical models for minimizing cost and delivery completion time are provided.
@highlight Truck stops for drone dispatch can be a customer or non customer location.
@highlight Efficient machine learning based heuristic proposed to accelerate solution time.
