 Buses operating in mixed traffic experience problems with delay and travel time variability in peak periods . Numerous transit priority measures are found in the literature but most rely on separating buses from other vehicles . Complete separation such as dedicated bus lanes might underutilize the system capacity when the frequency of buses is not high . We propose a dynamic bus lane policy where control adjusts the proportion of cars to buses in one lane of a multi lane arterial instead of enforcing complete separation of vehicle types . This strategy is analyzed with aggregated macroscopic dynamics for different models of lane choice . It is shown to benefit both cars and buses by maintaining higher outflow during the peak period and helping the system to recover more quickly at the end of the peak . Greater reductions in travel time are possible with increased information available to vehicles . Analytical derivations and non linear optimization are then used to obtain the system optimal allocation of cars as well as the toll needed to achieve it . The system optimal tolling would be difficult to implement in practice . Another optimization which includes tolls paid in its objective is nearly as good at reducing vehicle hours traveled and produces a much simpler pricing structure amenable to feedback control . A microsimulation with feedback control confirms the results of the macroscopic model and shows additional benefits attributable to driver behavior . Future work will look into varying control parameters to achieve a global minimum travel time and will incorporate user heterogeneity to test pricing strategies .

@highlight Introduce the concept of a dynamic bus lane into which the flow of cars can be restricted to provide some bus priority.
@highlight Show through macroscopic and microsimulation models that this adaptive control strategy benefits both buses and cars.
@highlight Derive the system optimal distribution of cars and show that simple pricing strategies perform almost as well.
