 Bus operations on arterials are often hindered by traffic signals and car queues . Transit signal priority strategies can be used to improve bus operations on arterials . Analytically quantifying the impacts of TSP in mixed traffic where cars and buses share lanes is challenging since car queues can slow down buses while slow moving buses can create bottlenecks for cars . Furthermore computational costs increase significantly when considering an arterial with multiple intersections . To tackle these challenges this paper first develops a dynamic programming framework to model and evaluate TSP along an arterial . Next the algorithm is utilized to determine the changes to car and bus delays as a result of TSP implementation along an arterial and the sensitivity of the algorithm to the signal timing plan bus stop locations and dwell durations and the bus headway is evaluated . Next a bi level optimization framework is proposed to determine the optimal location of TSP implementation along arterials . Finally the results of integrating TSP with dedicated bus lanes is evaluated . The results suggest that the benefits of TSP largely depend on the signal setting and bus stop location and that as the bus headway decreases the marginal benefit of providing TSP also decreases . Additionally the results suggest that the specific intersection at which TSP is implemented can play a large role on its operational impacts . Finally it is found that in some scenarios the benefits of implementing TSP alone can be larger than implementing dedicated bus lanes alone .

@highlight Analyze transit signal priority considering buses as moving bottlenecks.
@highlight Develop a dynamic programming methodology to analyze transit signal priority along an arterial.
@highlight Understand impacts of signal settings on arterial level TSP implementation.
@highlight Determine optimal locations for TSP implementation on an arterial.
@highlight Compare delay benefits of dedicated bus lanes to TSP on an arterial.
