 An important component of airport landside operations involves providing assistance to passengers with reduced mobility . These operations are typically managed by third party contractors which leverage a team of escorts and a set of wheelchairs to provide mobility assistance services . The performance of these systems relies critically on the dispatch of escorts and wheelchairs to serve each traveler request . Sub optimal dispatch can lead to negative individual and system wide implications such as long passenger wait times customer dissatisfaction or added delays in flight departures . This paper reports the outcomes of a collaboration with the Pittsburgh International Airport that involved three steps . First the collection and digitization of data provided visibility into demand for mobility assistance services and historical performance of the system . Second we propose an original integer programming model to optimize and support the assignment of escorts to traveler requests and we develop an efficient solution approach based on a rolling algorithm to enable the implementation of the model with realistic problem sizes . We verify that the models outputs are consistent with insights obtained from the historical records of operations and identify opportunities to enhance the level of service without increasing system capacity . In particular the results suggest that improvements in information flows and in communication between airlines the central dispatcher and passenger escorts can result in significant dispatch improvements . Third we leveraged these insights by developing a tablet application to provide real time visibility into traveler requests dispatch recommendations and data visualizations for continued performance assessment and enhancement .

@highlight Mobility assistance services are becoming key components in landside management.
@highlight Real world data on escort operations are acquired digitized and analyzed.
@highlight An integer programming model optimizes escort dispatch to minimize wait times.
@highlight Level of service is improved with elevated escort utilization rates.
@highlight Web based applications are developed to store visualize and forecast demand.
