 The mode share of app based ride hailing services has been growing steadily in recent years and this trend is expected to continue . Ride hailing services generate two types of trips passenger hauling trips and deadheading trips . Passenger hauling trips are the trips made while transporting passengers between places . Virtually all other trips made by a ride hailing vehicle when there are no passengers in the vehicle are called deadheading trips or empty trips . Trips between the drop off location of one passenger and the pick up location of the next passenger could comprise a substantial share of total travel by ride hailing vehicles both in terms of number of trips and miles of travel . This paper aims to model the deadheading trips produced by app based ride hailing services at the disaggregate level of individual trips . Passenger trip data published by the app based ride hailing company Ride Austin is used to impute deadheading trips . The pick up locations of passengers are then modeled using a nonlinear in parameters multinomial logit framework essentially capturing the deadheading that takes place from the drop off of one passenger to the pick up of the next passenger . The model is sensitive to socio demographic characteristics as well as employment opportunities and built environment characteristics of the study area . The model results shed light on the characteristics of deadheading trips at different locations and at different time periods in a day . The paper concludes with a discussion of how transportation planners and app based ride hailing companies may utilize knowledge about deadheading to enact policies and pricing schemes that reduce deadheading .

@highlight Imputes deadheading trips by ride hailing vehicles using data on passenger trips.
@highlight Develops a model for predicting passenger pick up locations.
@highlight Results provide valuable insights on deadheading trip patterns.
@highlight Model will enable travel demand forecasting models to account for deadheading trips.
