 The recent years have witnessed a greater demand for understanding how people move in urban environments . Due to the widespread usage of mobile phones there have been several trajectory based studies focusing on extracting the characteristics of human mobility from georeferenced mobile phone data . Mobile positioning data is generally generated as scattered points in CDRs . Even though CDR data can be regarded as an inexpensive scalable source of information on human mobility mobility studies in urban settings based on such data sources still prove to be a research challenge due to the coarseness of CDR spatial granularity . Motivated by the need for transforming large scale CDRs to movement trajectories the present study offers a new solution which is made of two principal building blocks Developing a Bayesian based induction method through adopting a GIS based wave propagation model to solve the GSM based localization problem when methods such as triangulation are not applicable due to the lack of measurements from more than one base station Reconstruction of movement trajectories from cellular location information using overlapping relations existing between observed cells as well as detection of ping pong phenomena as auxiliary information . A case study employing CDR and GPS records obtained from an experimental survey on one of the central urban zones of Tehran was conducted which showed the effectiveness of the proposed methodology in comparison to current approaches with respect to three perspectives including movement path exploration individual oriented movement features extraction and crowd movement modelling .

@highlight An approach to improve the accuracy of reconstructed CDR based trajectory is proposed.
@highlight Radio wave propagation modelling can improve CDR based localization accuracy.
@highlight GSM based probability localization reduces the uncertainty of Cell ID positioning.
@highlight The proposed approach is effective in individual movement exploration.
@highlight The proposed approach can be employed to accurately map the cellular trips to the desired urban zones of an OD matrix.
