 Ride hailing services are shaping travel behaviours and emergent urban mobility patterns . From their initial diffusion centres in North America and Europe these on demand mobility services are increasingly becoming available in developing countries . Yet empirical research from these contexts on the impact of ride hailing services is lacking . To address this gap this paper examines the factors driving the adoption of ride hailing and the associated travel characteristics and mode substitution effects in Ghana Sub Saharan Africa . Using data from a large sample survey of commuters in a multi variable structural equation model the paper shows that socio demographic factors perceived benefits and ease of use of ride hailing perceived safety risks and car dependent lifestyles influence adoption and use of ride hailing services . Similar to other contexts individuals reference ride hailing trips were mainly for special occasion purposes but work and school journeys were also high . Shorter travel times and single passenger journeys within inner suburban and outer suburban localities typify ride hailing trips . This contrasts with other contexts where ride hailing is used frequently by urban dwellers and less so by those in the suburbs . Ride hailing use replaced conventional taxis public transport private car and walking suggesting mode substitution effects for individuals reference trips . Further exploration of a full days travel mode choices also revealed that individuals use other available modes of transport in addition to ride hailing services . However multi modal integration is weak suggesting that ride hailing tends to be used alone for full door to door journeys instead of complementing other existing modes in serving first last mile access for example . The implications of the findings for sustainable mobility are discussed .

@highlight Ride hailing adoption factors travel characteristics and mode substitution effects are examined.
@highlight Socio demographic factors perceived benefits and safety risks and car dependency influence ride hailing services use.
@highlight Ride hailing replaced conventional taxis private car and walking51 36 10 and 1 of reference trips respectively.
@highlight Ride hailing is mostly used for shorter and single passenger trips in suburban localities.
@highlight Ride hailing offers standalone services as they are not well integrated into existing travel modes.
