 We introduce the Stochastic Maintenance Fleet Transportation Problem for Offshore wind farms in which a maintenance provider determines an optimal medium term planning for maintaining multiple wind farms while controlling for uncertainty in the maintenance tasks and weather conditions . Since the maintenance provider is typically not the owner of a wind farm it needs to adhere minimum service requirements that specify the required service . We consider three of such settings perform all maintenance tasks allow for a fraction of unscheduled tasks and incentivize to perform maintenance rather quickly . We provide a two stage stochastic mixed integer programming model for the three SMFTPO settings and solve it by means of Sample Average Approximation . In addition we provide an overview of the what we discovered non aligned modeling assumptions in the literature regarding operational decisions . By providing a series of special cases of the second stage problem resembling the different modeling assumptions we aim to establish a common consensus regarding the key modeling decisions to be taken in maintenance planning problems for offshore wind farms . We provide newly constructed and publicly available benchmark sets . We extensively compare the different SMFTPO settings and its special cases on those benchmark sets and we show that the special case reformulations are very effective for solving the second stage problems . In addition we find that for particular cases established modeling techniques result in overestimations and increased running times .

@highlight A tactical maintenance planning model in offshore wind is introduced.
@highlight Uncertainty of weather conditions and maintenance tasks is included.
@highlight Three distinct minimum service requirements are introduced within this context.
@highlight It is shown that different modeling decisions impact the computational efficiency.
@highlight With Sample Average Approximation we provide solutions to the stochastic problem.
