 As app based ride hailing services have been widely adopted within existing traditional taxi markets researchers have been devoted to understand the important factors that influence the demand of the new mobility . Econometric models are mainly utilized to interpret the significant factors of the demand and deep neural networks have been recently used to improve the forecasting performance by capturing complex patterns in the large datasets . However to mitigate possible traffic congestion and balance utilization rates for the current taxi drivers an effective strategy of proactively managing a quota system for both emerging services and regular taxis is still critically needed . This paper aims to systematically design an explainable deep learning model capable of assessing the quota system balancing the demand volumes between two modes . A two stage interpretable machine learning modeling framework was developed by a linear regression model coupled with a neural network layered by long short term memory . The first stage investigates the correlation between the existing taxis and on demand ride hailing services while controlling for other explanatory variables . The second stage fulfills the long short term memory network structure capturing the residuals from the first estimation stage in order to enhance the forecasting performance . The proposed stepwise modeling approach forecasts the demand of taxi rides and it is implemented in the application of pick up demand prediction using New York City taxi data . The experiment result indicates that the integrated model can capture the inter relationships between existing taxis and ride hailing services as well as identify the influence of additional factors namely the day of the week weather and holidays . Overall this modeling approach can be applied to construct an effective active demand management for the short term period as well as a quota control strategy between on demand ride hailing services and traditional taxis .

@highlight A stepwise explainable deep learning formulation using linear regression LR and a recurrent neural network.
@highlight Facilitate quota based planning to balance utilization rates between for hire vehicles FHVs and traditional taxis.
@highlight Data analysis from New York City Taxi Limousine Commission to observe the correlation between FHV and regular taxis.
@highlight Real world data sets examined for coupled LR and long short term memory LSTM framework.
