 Traffic conflict points cause travel delay stop and go traffic and excessive energy consumption . Efforts have been taken to improve traffic conflict point performance via trajectory control of connected automated vehicles as the CAV technology emerges . One major challenge to these efforts is the complexity in optimization of CAV trajectories particularly with joint signal timing optimization . This challenge poses barriers to real time application requirements scaling them up to address network level problems and drawing analytical insights into problem structures . To overcome this challenge this paper aims to seek for an efficient and analytical solution to a joint vehicle trajectory and signal timing optimization problem . This problem simultaneously optimizes CAV trajectories and signal timing to minimize travel delay and energy consumption at a conflicting point with two traffic approaches . This study modifies the original complex formulation in two ways . First the vehicle trajectory shape is simplified into a piece wise quadratic function with no more than five segments . Second instead of using the highly non linear instantaneous fuel consumption function a simplified macroscopic measure is proposed to approximate fuel consumption as an analytical quadratic function of signal red interval . These simplifications provide elegant theoretical properties that enable solving an analytical exact solution to this complex problem with parsimonious analytical insights . Numerical examples reveal that the proposed model can significantly reduce travel delay and fuel consumption . Moreover it is demonstrated that the presented algorithm is highly efficient and appropriate for real world traffic applications .

@highlight Proposing an analytical near optimum solution approach to a joint vehicle trajectory and signal timing optimization problem.
@highlight Analytical construction of near optimum multi trajectories.
@highlight Considering macroscopic fuel consumption function consideration.
@highlight Proposing theoretical properties into problem structure and analytical solution formulation.
@highlight Conducting numerical examples for multiple types of conflict points.
