 With the rapid development of intelligent vehicles drivers are increasingly likely to share their control authorities with the intelligent control unit . For building an efficient Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and shared control systems the vehicle needs to understand the drivers intent and their activities to generate assistant and collaborative control strategies . In this study a driver intention inference system that focuses on the highway lane change maneuvers is proposed . First a high level driver intention mechanism and framework are introduced . Then a vision based intention inference system is proposed which captures the multi modal signals based on multiple low cost cameras and the VBOX vehicle data acquisition system . A novel ensemble bi directional recurrent neural network model with Long Short Term Memory units is proposed to deal with the time series driving sequence and the temporal behavioral patterns . Naturalistic highway driving data that consists of lane keeping left and right lane change maneuvers are collected and used for model construction and evaluation . Furthermore the driver s pre maneuver activities are statistically analyzed . It is found that for situation aware drivers usually check the mirrors for more than six seconds before they initiate the lane change maneuver and the time interval between steering the handwheel and crossing the lane is about 2s on average . Finally hypothesis testing is conducted to show the significant improvement of the proposed algorithm over existing ones . With five fold cross validation the EBiLSTM model achieves an average accuracy of 96.1 for the intention that is inferred 0.5s before the maneuver starts .

@highlight An ensemble Bi directional LSTM model is proposed for driver intention inference.
@highlight Driver lane change intention can be precisely predicted before the acutal maneuver.
@highlight Driver lane change behavior and critical moments are statistically analyzed.
@highlight The proposed EBiRNN method show advantages over conventional methods.
@highlight Different prediction horizons and real time inference results are analyzed.
