 Providing quality transit service to travelers in low density areas particularly travelers without personal vehicles is a constant challenge for transit agencies . The advent of fully autonomous vehicles and their inclusion in mobility service fleets may allow transit agencies to offer better service and or reduce their own capital and operational costs . This study focuses on the problem of allocating resources between transit patterns and operating shared use AV mobility services in a large metropolitan area . To address this question a joint transit network redesign and SAMS fleet size determination problem is introduced and a bi level mathematical programming formulation and solution approach are presented . The upper level problem modifies a transit network frequency setting problem formulation via incorporating SAMS fleet size as a decision variable and allowing the removal of bus routes . The lower level problem consists of a dynamic combined mode choice traveler assignment problem formulation . The heuristic solution procedure involves solving the upper level problem using a nonlinear programming solver and solving the lower level problem using an iterative agent based assignment simulation approach . To illustrate the effectiveness of the modeling framework this study uses traveler demand from Chicago along with the regions existing multimodal transit network . The computational results indicate significant traveler benefits in terms of improved average traveler wait times associated with optimizing the joint design of multimodal transit networks and SAMS fleets compared with the initial transit network design .

@highlight Integrates shared autonomous vehicle service with conventional public transit.
@highlight Method to jointly determine autonomous vehicle fleet size and transit route frequencies.
@highlight Develops best allocation of resources to provide mobility to urban residents.
@highlight Bi level problem formulation explicitly considers user response demand in the design process.
@highlight Methodology applied to Chicago multimodal transit network.
