 Intermodal railroad mode of freight transport has been considered as a sustainable and efficient solution for ensuring the sustainability of the freight transport industry but the IRR transport adoption faces many challenges in real cases . However so far studies considered inhibitors of IRR transport under logistics shippers or forwarders perspectives . Unfortunately no existing research has evaluated the interrelationships of IRR freight transport inhibitors in emerging economies nor in Indian Context . This study aims to give a structural model of IRR freight transport inhibitors interrelationships with a case of the Indian freight industry . The considered stakeholders in the present research are academic researchers freight shippers and Indian Railways officials . The considered research framework presents twenty two inhibitors that were selected from the previous literature and experts input . Then a blend of grey theory and decision making trial and evaluation laboratory method was used to identify the causal relationships between the selected inhibitors and the strength of their interrelationships . A Euclidian distance analysis was used to highlight the similarities and differences between stakeholders views . All the stakeholders find some common inhibitors such as poor rail freight transport infrastructure low frequency of freight trains the poor delivery reliability of rail mode lack of competition between transport modes and lack of holistic transportation business model . The unique contribution of present work relies on the fact that no past studies were found to consider the impact of multiple stakeholders in the intermodal freight business . Moreover policymakers may take proactive actions to improve the inhibitors of IRR into practices for improving modal balance in emerging economies . Finally the conclusion and limitations of the present work are highlighted .

@highlight Selected twenty two inhibitors to IRR fright transport in emerging economies from literature and experts input.
@highlight An integration of grey theory and DEMATEL have been used to quantify the inhibitors relationships.
@highlight Grey DEMATEL method visualizes the interrelationships among inhibitors.
@highlight Most influential inhibitors coming under region 3 needs imperative attention.
@highlight Lack of rail transport infrastructure is found to be the most prominent inhibitor.
