 In this paper we investigate the economic effects of deregulation in Japans intercity coach industry . Specifically we examine the intensity of competition in the industry using a unique dataset to evaluate the economic effects of two major deregulations in 2002 and 2013 . The absence of organized data means there is no previous research that quantitatively evaluates the deregulations . We collect data capturing the entry of bus operating companies by web scraping and use a structural estimation method developed in econometrics for the purpose of measuring the degree of competition . Our empirical analysis yields the following three main results . First we find that the markup ratios always exceed 1 which indicates that the entry of one additional firm always intensifies competition . Specifically the markup gained by one firm under duopoly is estimated to be about three quarters of that under monopoly . Second the competitive effect of an additional entry decreases as the number of incumbents increases . This result is obtained irrespective of the mode of competition . Third we find that the services offered by firms in the industry are significantly differentiated . Counterfactual analysis reveals that additional 0.76 firms can enter a market on average by differentiating their products from each other . These results provide useful insights into the development of competition policy pertaining to the contemporary transportation industry .

@highlight We investigate the economic effects of deregulation in Japan s intercity coach industry.
@highlight We collect data capturing the entry of bus operating companies by web scraping.
@highlight We use a structural estimation method for the purpose of measuring the degree of competition.
@highlight We find that the markup ratios always exceed 1 which indicates that the entry of one additional firm always intensifies competition.
@highlight The competitive effect of an additional entry decreases as the number of incumbents increases.
@highlight We find that the services offered by firms in the industry are significantly differentiated.
@highlight Counterfactual analysis reveals that additional 0.76 firms can enter a market on average by differentiating their products from each other.
