 The classification of the urban traffic state and its application is an important part of intelligent transportation systems which can not only help traffic managers grasp the traffic operation situation and analyze congestion but also provide travelers with more traffic information and help them avoid congestion . Thus an accurate traffic state classification method would be very practical for urban traffic management . The primary objective of this study is to classify the urban traffic state using a machine learning method . In this approach two parts are developed . First a new classification indicator i.e . the ample degree of road network is proposed and it will make up a comprehensive classification indicator system with other parameters such as traffic flow speed and occupancy . Then the traditional fuzzy c means clustering approach is improved in two regards i.e . the fuzzy membership function improvement and weighting processing of the samples and these improvements can enhance the clustering performance . As a result an improved machine learning method is developed and used to conduct the clustering analysis with real world traffic flow data . Next a case study of Shanghai is used to guide the study process which consists of data processing clustering analysis and method comparison . The other methods method the decision tree method the k Nearest Neighbor method and the traditional FCM clustering approach are introduced to compare with the improved FCM clustering approach . The discussion shows the superiority of the proposed method and it outperforms the other methods in classification performance . Additionally the NMI ROC curve results also illustrated the superiority of the improved FCM method to other methods . These comaprison results suggest that the improved FCM clustering approach is feasible and the results can be well used in the advanced traffic management system which may have the potential to serve as a reference for releasing accurate traffic state information and preventing traffic congestion and risk .

@highlight A machine learning approach is used.
@highlight The traditional FCM clustering algorithm is improved in terms of the fuzzy membership function and weighting processing of the samples.
@highlight The ample degree of road network is introduced in this paper.
@highlight A comprehensive analysis of classification accuracy is conducted to evaluate the classification performance.
