 Bicycle is a sustainable low carbon transport mode . However insufficient or unplanned infrastructure leads to decrease in the share of bicycle in many cities of developing nations . In order to increase the bicycle share and to provide safer faster and more direct routes a bicycle superhighway is proposed for urban areas . This study identifies the potential of increase in the bicycle share . For maximum utilization of the new infrastructure an algorithm is presented to identify the optimum number and locations of the connectors between proposed new infrastructure and existing network . Household income levels are incorporated into the decision making process of individual travellers for a better understanding of the modal shift . A real world case study of Patna India is chosen to show the application of the proposed superhighway . It is shown that for Patna the bicycle share can escalate as high as 48 up from 32 by providing this kind of infrastructure . However together with bicycles allowing motorbikes on the superhighway limits the bicycle share to 44 . The increase in bicycle share is mainly a result of people switching from motorbike public transport and walk to the bicycle . Further to evaluate the benefits of the bicycle superhighway this study first extends an emission modelling tool to estimate the time dependent vehicle specific emissions under mixed traffic conditions . Allowing only bicyclists on the superhighway improves congested urban areas reduces emissions and increases accessibility . However allowing motorbikes on the superhighway increases emissions significantly in the central part of the urban area and reduces accessibilities by bicycle mode to education facilities which are undesirable . This study elicits that a physically segregated high quality bicycle superhighway will not only attract current non cyclist travellers and increase the share of the bicycle mode but will also reduce negative transport externalities significantly .

@highlight A bicycle superhighway is proposed for an urban area.
@highlight Algorithm to identify optimum number and locations of bicycle superhighway connectors.
@highlight Household income is included in the decision making process of individual travellers.
@highlight The potential of increase in bicycle share is quantified.
@highlight Impact of BSH on emissions and accessibilities is visualised for policy implications.
