 Telework has been promoted for decades as one of the traffic demand management policies to alleviate congestion during peak periods and reduce work related trips along with other benefits . However less clear is the role played by life stages on telework behavior . This study investigated to which extent telework frequency associated with life stages and how these associations could be explained based on the work life conflict perspective . Representative data were obtained from German Microcensus 2010 . The outcome variable was measured as ordered telework participation levels . After testing for multicollinearity a zero inflated ordered probit regression model was applied to assess the associations between telework and family life stages while adjusting for individual household job related and environmental characteristics . Results suggest that life stages associate with telework behavior in a complex way . Three patterns have been distinguished . Specifically irrespective of gender and marital status parents are less likely to telework compared to those without children . Regarding individuals without children single individuals are more likely to telework than married ones and males more likely than females . In contrast for individuals with children the partnered parents are more likely to telework than single parents and females more likely than males . Our findings suggest that as the most important feature in family life stages children play a vital role in telework behavior . It not only increases both work to family conflict and family to work conflict but also triggers housework re division within couples and aggravates gender differences . Policies that support formal childcare resources could relieve the family to work conflict and encourage people to work at home .

@highlight Life stages associate with telework behavior in a complex way.
@highlight Irrespective of gender and marital status parents are less likely to telework compared to those without children.
@highlight Regarding individuals without children single individuals are more likely to telework than married ones and males are more likely to telework than females.
@highlight For individuals with children the partnered parents are more likely to telework than the single parents and females are more likely to telework than males.
