 This paper considers the problem of measuring spatial and temporal variation in driver productivity on ride sourcing trips . This variation is especially important from a drivers perspective if a platforms drivers experience systematic disparities in earnings because of variation in their riders destinations they may perceive the pricing model as inequitable . This perception can exacerbate search frictions if it leads drivers to avoid locations where they believe they may be assigned unlucky fares . To characterize any such systematic disparities in productivity we develop an analytic framework with three key components . First we propose a productivity metric that looks two consecutive trips ahead thus capturing the effect on expected earnings of market conditions at drivers drop off locations . Second we develop a natural experiment by analyzing trips with a common origin but varying destinations thus isolating purely spatial effects on productivity . Third we apply a spatial denoising method that allows us to work with raw spatial information exhibiting high levels of noise and sparsity without having to aggregate data into large low resolution spatial zones . By applying our framework to data on more than 1.4 million rides in Austin Texas we find significant spatial variation in ride sourcing driver productivity and search frictions . Drivers at the same location experienced disparities in productivity after being dispatched on trips with different destinations with origin based surge pricing increasing these earnings disparities . Our results show that trip distance is the dominant factor in driver productivity short trips yielded lower productivity even when ending in areas with high demand . These findings suggest that new pricing strategies are required to minimize random disparities in driver earnings .

@highlight Current ride sourcing dispatching and pricing schemes do not adequately ensure driver equity
@highlight Drivers at the same origin enjoyed different continuation payoffs after getting dispatched on trips to different locations
@highlight Origin based surge pricing increased these disparities in drivers earnings
@highlight Trip distance is a major predictive factor on driver productivity
@highlight New pricing strategies are required to guarantee driver equity
