 Ridesourcing services provide alternative mobility options in several cities . Their market share has grown exponentially due to the convenience they provide . The use of such services may be associated with car light or car free lifestyles . However there are growing concerns regarding their impact on urban transportation operations performance due to empty unproductive miles driven without a passenger . This paper is motivated by the potential to reduce deadhead mileage of ridesourcing trips by providing drivers with information on future ridesourcing trip demand . Future demand information enables the driver to wait in place for the next riders request without cruising around and contributing to congestion . A machine learning model is employed to predict hourly and 10 minute future interval travel demand for ridesourcing at a given location . Using future demand information we propose algorithms to assign drivers to act on received demand information by waiting in place for the next rider and match these drivers with riders to minimize deadheading distance . Real world data from ridesourcing providers in Austin TX and Chengdu China are leveraged . Results show that this process achieves 68 82 and 53 60 reduction of trip level deadheading miles for the RideAustin and DiDi Chuxing sample operations respectively under the assumption of unconstrained availability of short term parking . Deadheading savings increase slightly as the maximum tolerable waiting time for the driver increases . Further it is observed that significant deadhead savings per trip are possible even when a small percent of the ridesourcing driver pool is provided with future ridesourcing demand information .

@highlight Providing drivers with future ridesourcing trip demand predictions can reduce trip level deadheading.
@highlight Drivers act on high expected demand information by waiting in place for the next rider.
@highlight Machine learning for future demand prediction and trips assignment by minimizing the empty vehicle mileage.
@highlight The analysis leverages sample data from ridesourcing services operating in US and China.
@highlight Average deadhead mileage reduction ranges from 53 to 82 for ridesourcing operations per trip.
