 Aggressive driving amongst all driving behaviors is largely responsible for leading to traffic accidents . With the objective to improve road safety this paper develops an on line approach for vehicle running state monitoring and aggressive driving identification using kinematic parameters captured by the in vehicle recorder under naturalistic driving conditions . To characterize the roads in reality a novel road conceptual model is proposed . It accounts for not only the curve on the horizontal plane but also the slope on the vertical plane as well as the cross slope . For each position where the vehicle is driving the vehicle motion is decomposed into two circular motions on the horizontal and vertical planes . On each plane the vehicle maneuver is first identified . Then aggressive driving is identified according to the limit equilibrium of driving safety or comfortability . Based on the proposed method called three elements the vehicle maneuver radius and slope angle on the vertical plane can be solved in an on line manner . The novel approach is an elaborate analytical model with clear physical meaning but small computation load and therefore is potential to be implemented in the mobile devices to assist in real time aggressive driving identification and labeling . The developed approach is applied to a real case on the curved and sloped route in Nanjing China . Empirical results of extensive experiments based on the kinematic parameters collected from the in vehicle data recorder under naturalistic driving conditions demonstrate that aggressive driving behaviors are mostly found on the pavements with curve and slope and can be identified by the developed approach .

@highlight A concept road model characterizing the road in reality is presented.
@highlight Analyzing aggressive driving on both the horizontal and vertical planes.
@highlight Identifying aggressive driving considering both driving safety and comfortability.
@highlight Aggressive driving is identified in a dynamic and on line manner.
@highlight The proposed model is evaluated by a real case in Nanjing China.
