 In this paper we study the dial a ride problem of ride sharing automated taxis in an urban road network considering the traffic congestion caused by the ATs . This shared automated mobility system is expected to provide a seamless door to door service for urban travellers much like what the existing transportation network companies do but with decreased labour cost and more flexible relocation operations due to the vehicles automation . We propose an integer non linear programming model that optimizes the routing of the ATs to maximize the system profit depending on dynamic travel times which are a non linear function of the ATs flows . It is important to involve traffic congestion in such a routing problem since for a growing number of ATs circulating in the city their number will lead to delays . The model is embedded within a rolling horizon framework which divides a typical day into several horizons to deal with the real time travel demand . In each horizon the routing model is solved with the demand at that interval and assuring the continuity of the trips between horizons . Nevertheless each horizon model is hard to solve given its number of constraints and decision variables . Therefore we propose a solution approach based on a customized Lagrangian relaxation algorithm which allows identifying a near optimal solution for this difficult problem . Numerical experiments for the city of Delft The Netherlands are used to demonstrate the solution quality of the proposed algorithm as well as obtaining insights about the AT system performance . Results show that the solution algorithm can solve the proposed model for hard instances . Ride sharing makes the AT system more capable to provide better service regarding delay time and the number of requests that can be attended by the system . The delay penalty on the profit objective function is an effective control parameter on guaranteeing the service quality while maintaining system profitability .

@highlight An optimization model is formulated to maximize the automated taxi systems profit.
@highlight The effect of traffic congestion is considered in automated taxis dial a ride problem.
@highlight A customized Lagrangian relaxation algorithm can solve the model for hard instances.
@highlight Ride sharing contributes more served requests and less delay.
@highlight The automated taxis service quality is sensitive to the delay penalty.
