 This paper investigates the impacts of high speed rail development on regional equity in China during 20072017 . The equity in terms of economic output and HSR service is characterized at national divisional and provincial levels . The Gini indices associated with prefectures gross regional product per capita HSR connectivity and accessibility are measured to assess disparity from different aspects . Instead of measuring the effect of HSR entry by a dummy variable representing the presence of HSR service only this paper estimates the effects of HSR by various terms regarding the HSR presence network coverage service quality and equity of HSR development . In particular the HSR network coverage is captured by the number of prefectures connected to HSR . Service quality is characterized by the HSR connectivity and accessibility . The frequency and accessibility related metrics are further decomposed into two sub variables representing the intra and inter provincial metrics to differentiate the service availability and travel time between prefectures in a same or different province . The influence between neighboring or adjoining provinces on each others economic equity is identified by spatial autocorrelation effect . Our main findings include 1 National equity is gradually improved in terms of both GRP and HSR developments in China between 2007 and 2017 the provinces or divisions with larger GRP tend to be less equitable 2 The inauguration of HSR has positive correlation with provincial equity however the positive effect diminishes with the spread of HSR coverage 3 HSR accessibility has more significant effect on provincial economic equity than frequency 4 Effects of intra provincial accessibility and connectivity dominate inter provincial metrics 5 The prosperous and balanced HSR development in neighboring provinces helps promote provincial economic equity of one another .

@highlight Impact of HSR on regional disparity examined.
@highlight Multiple disparity metrics for GRP HSR coverage travel time frequency.
@highlight Inauguration of HSR has a positive correlation with provincial equity.
@highlight Positive effect diminishes with the spread of HSR coverage.
@highlight HSR accessibility has more significant effect on economic equity than frequency.
