 Operating speed profiles represent drivers responses to roadway geometry and are widely used to evaluate safety performance of roadway design . To predict operating speed profile the majority of early research followed a two step modeling procedure estimate speeds at start middle and end points of road segments and fill the profile between the points with assumed driver behavior . This sparse spot based modeling strategy has been shown to be inadequate for capturing the complex speed changes resulting from the overlapping horizontal and vertical curves on mountainous roads . This paper proposes a high resolution modeling approach for operating speeds measured in a dense series of equidistant spots along a road . This type of model is more conducive to analysis of mountainous freeway alignments as operating speeds are predicted along the entire roadway . The high resolution data were obtained using the Tongji University Driving Simulator from a simulated section of mountainous freeway . The estimated linear mixed model includes geometric variables representing the road upstream and downstream of each data collection spot . To determine the suitable lengths of the upstream and downstream segments the data were extracted from several alternative segment lengths including fixed lengths and varying downstream length accordingly to sight distances . The model with a spherical structure of error covariance using geometric data extracted from 300 meter upstream and downstream segments performed the best . An out of sample evaluation of the model has the mean absolute error of 3.2km h and the root mean square error of 4.2km h which indicates a promising prediction ability of the proposed model .

@highlight A high resolution speed modeling strategy for mountainous freeways was proposed.
@highlight Geometric parameters from adjacent segments were used to model speed changes.
@highlight The linear mixed model was applied to handle the spatial autocorrelation problem.
@highlight An out of sample test showed the promising prediction ability of the model.
