 This paper extends a real time Connected Vehicle based traffic signal control algorithm at isolated intersections to balance between two competing intersection objectives efficiency and equity . In this approach a central controller is used to collect real time locations of connected vehicles at regular intervals which can then be used to also identify the existence of some of the non connected vehicles . The control algorithm then aims to optimize the discharge sequence of naturally occurring platoons of vehicles based on their proximity . Specifically the strategy selects the platoon discharge sequenceand associated signal phase and timing planthat minimizes average vehicle delay while limiting the maximum delay any individual vehicle may experience . The latter objective is only possible with detailed vehicle level information available from connected vehicles . The results show that without the threshold on maximum individual vehicle delay average delay is often minimized at the expense of very large delays imposed onto some vehicles . By implementing a threshold both the maximum vehicle delay and the distribution of individual vehicle delaysas measured by the standard deviation and a common measure of population inequity the Gini coefficientcan be improved often with only negligible impacts to intersection efficiency . However the tradeoff between equity and efficiency becomes more significant as the maximum vehicle delay threshold decreases . Sensitivity tests show that this control algorithm works well for different total traffic demands and different demand patterns . The proposed algorithm is also effective under imperfect connected vehicle penetration rates when the connected vehicles make up more than 40 of the traffic stream . The results suggest that the proposed strategy can help significantly reduce long delays and inequitable treatment of vehicles at an intersection when vehicle level information is available to a signal controller .

@highlight Real time Connected Vehicle based traffic signal control algorithm.
@highlight Algorithm seeks to balance between efficiency and equity.
@highlight Algorithm minimizes average delay while limiting the maximum individual delay.
@highlight Equity at intersections can be improved with minimum loss of efficiency.
