 This paper shows how traffic heterogeneity and the way it is encoded into a model drastically affects a model ability to reproduce observed traffic . Being heterogeneity a major source of uncertainty to correctly frame the proposed validation methodology we have first reviewed and adapted cross disciplinary theoretical concepts about uncertainty modelling to traffic simulation . A number of open issues including error compensation and model overfitting has been interpreted and clarified through the proposed framework . A two level probabilistic approach has been applied to run stochastic simulations of three NGSIM I 80 traffic scenarios and quantitatively infer the impact of heterogeneity . According to this approach both the car following and the lane changing models of each vehicle have been calibrated against observed trajectories . Based on the estimated parameters distributions different models of heterogeneity have been quantitatively validated against macroscopic traffic patterns . Being traffic a collective phenomenon emerging from microscopic interactions even models calibrated on microscopic trajectories need to be quantitatively validated on macroscopic traffic patterns too . Among other results normal distributions of the model parameters which are customarily applied in traffic simulation practice have been found unable to reproduce the observed congestion patterns . Parameters correlation being claimed as highly influential in previous works is responsible for a model overfitting in traffic scenarios with low congestion . In the end it has been demonstrated that a thorough characterization of parameters heterogeneity can not be left out in traffic simulation if an ersatz representation of traffic is to be avoided .

@highlight Quantitative validation of microscopic models on traffic patterns from trajectories.
@highlight Comprehensive review of uncertainty management in traffic modelling.
@highlight Two level probabilistic approach to evaluate impact of drivers heterogeneity.
@highlight Independent uniform pdfs resulted the most robust parameters distribution.
@highlight The higher the congestion the higher the relevance of parameters correlation.
