 In recent years several perimeter control strategies have been proposed for traffic management in cities . The common factor found in these works is the use of Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram models to describe the dynamics of the network and optimize traffic inside the perimeter by manipulating perimeter inflows . Perimeter gating control strategies are attractive for traffic management inside the inner city . However it inevitably creates a negative impact on the traffic outside . Most of the works in this research area have neglected vehicle re routing outside the controlled perimeter i.e . they do not consider demand elasticity to the central region resulting from gating and the related queues . In this paper we propose a global modeling framework capable of assessing the effect of perimeter gating control on the full network considering demand elasticity resulting from Dynamic User Equilibrium . Classical Proportional Integral control scheme is used to control traffic congestion inside a central region . The modeling framework is comprised of an accumulation based MFD model to reproduce traffic dynamics inside the reservoir point queue model to represent queuing vehicles on inbound links to the gating points and a time dependent travel time profile based on a steady state approximation of MFD dynamics to characterize the alternative road network . DUE is then implemented considering instantaneous predicted travel time . This determines how the demand to the inner region is affected by the gating . The functioning of the global system is assessed by total time spent and NOx and CO

@highlight Designing a macroscopic modeling framework for perimeter gating control and dynamic user equilibrium.
@highlight Designing a routing scheme with instantaneous dynamic user equilibrium and predictive travel time.
@highlight Application of Proportional Integral PI controller for traffic control.
@highlight Investigating the impact of perimeter gating control on routing inside and outside the reservoir.
@highlight Analysis of emissions in the traffic network.
