 Ride sharing services that have been growing in recent years with the start of network service companies will be further enhanced by the recently emerging trend of applications for autonomous vehicles for future traveler mobility . One fundamental question that transportation managers should address is how to capture the endogenous traffic patterns involving the new and uncertain elements facing future transportation planning and management . By concentrating on one ideal system optimal scenario in which all vehicles are autonomous or can be centrally guided and all passengers pickup drop off trip requests can be given at the beginning this paper aims to integrate travel demand vehicle supply and limited infrastructure . Available ride shared and autonomous vehicles from different depots can be optimally assigned to satisfy passengers trip requests while considering the endogenous congestion in capacitated networks . A number of decomposition approaches are adopted in this research . Focusing on this primal problem we propose an arc based vehicle based integer linear programming model in space time state networks which is solved by Dantzig Wolfe decomposition . From the perspective of dynamic traffic assignment a space time state path based flow based linear programming model is also provided as an approximation according to the mapping information between vehicle and passenger and between a vehicle and the space time arc in each STS path in our priori generated column pool . Finally numerical experiments are performed to demonstrate our decomposition approaches and their computation efficiency . From our preliminary experiments we have a few interesting observations without considering road congestion the network performance efficiency could be overestimated passengers required pickup and drop off time windows could be a buffer to mitigate road congestion without impacting system performance the ride sharing service could reduce the total transportation system cost under centralized control .

@highlight Integrate trip requests vehicle supply and infrastructure with endogenous congestions.
@highlight Develop space time state network flow models with ridesharing and road capacity.
@highlight Apply Dantzig Wolfe decomposition to decompose the primal problem.
@highlight A column pool based linear programming model proposed as an approximation solution approach.
