 With new rail lines residents can enjoy higher accessibility and more activity opportunities . However better access to public transport can potentially increase land prices in catchment areas . In this research we aim to investigate whether this capitalisation effect goes beyond the conventional catchment area and how such an effect varies across different regions . In a departure from previous studies we employed a gravity based accessibility measure to capture the regional impact of rail lines using a cross sectional analysis of 2001 and 2011 residential apartment data in Hong Kong and a difference in difference approach to estimate repeated sales transacted in both years . We used a three level hierarchical estimation method that allowed the price effect to vary by submarket . The results indicated that the network accessibility of rail lines had a statistically significant capitalisation effect on property prices that varied across different submarkets . Although the three major new rail lines had a greater impact on the built environment in suburban areas the elasticities in property price with regard to accessibility were still larger in urban areas in both 2001 and 2011 . We also establish that the improvements in rail accessibility had a substantially greater effect on the changes in property price between 2001 and 2011 in several new town submarkets along the new lines . From a regional perspective we conclude that the price effect of new transport infrastructure goes beyond the local catchment areas and call for urban policies that address housing affordability issues across different submarkets in the region and a re examination of land value capture policies .

@highlight We estimate the price premium of rail accessibility on property prices in Hong Kong.
@highlight Access to the rail network raises the property prices significantly.
@highlight A significant spatial heterogeneity is revealed across different submarkets.
@highlight Repeat sales model shows a larger effect in several new towns along the new lines.
@highlight We offer policy implications in light of the regional impact of rail infrastructure.
