 Finding ways to improve the service quality and consequently attract more passengers is a major concern for public transit officials worldwide . Given the fact that there is a glaring deficiency of service quality models in the literature especially for developing nations the present study develops interrelationships among service quality factors of Metro Rail Transit System in Delhi India . For this purpose the study implemented an integrated Bayesian Networks and Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling approach on perceptions of 2390 passengers of Delhi Metro . Firstly the study extracted 41 service quality indicators into eight service quality factors using principal component analysis . Secondly the extracted factors were learnt in BN to achieve the most robust network structure . Thirdly the robust BN structure was tested and analysed in PLS SEM to develop a service quality model . The integrated methodological approach has facilitated in identifying hidden interrelationships among service quality factors through a systematic manner . The developed model indicates passenger ease as the most influential and amenities as the least influential factors of overall service quality . The OSQ index of 79.59 reveals the moderate satisfaction of passengers with Delhi Metro services . The study proposed several insights into the service quality improvements for Delhi Metro that must be focused and enriched for increasing Metro transit ridership . This knowledge of interrelationships among service quality factors can help transit officials in formulating effective strategies and investment plans accordingly to meet the passengers needs .

@highlight Face to face interviews gather Metro passengers perception of 41 service quality indicators.
@highlight Integrated BN PLS SEM identified hidden interrelationships among service quality factors.
@highlight The Passenger Ease factor has a strong effect on the overall service quality OSQ .
@highlight The Environmental Impact factor has an independent and direct effect on the OSQ.
@highlight The developed interrelationships stand to agree with real world scenarios.
