 Optimization of on demand transportation provisions and ride sharing services in evacuations may provide increased network capacity and enhanced evacuation performance to transportation systems and improve equity and disaster preparedness for community and society . This paper proposes a two phase model for optimizing trip planning and operations by integrating a ride sharing process in short notice evacuations to allow a joint optimization of driver rider matching and necessary transfer connections among shared vehicle trips . In the first phase following network topology information and personal requests a vehicle space time hyper dimensional network is developed by constructing vehicle space time vertexes and arcs . In the second phase based on the constructed vehicle space time network a new time discretized multi rider multi driver network flow model is built to formulate ride sharing with connecting transfers . A Lagrangian relaxation solution approach is designed to solve the model in a real world network scenario . Numerical analyses are conducted with considerations given to the three operating parameters in the method and the analysis results show that the proposed model can not only meet the evacuation trip needs of the participating parties but it also supports personalized requests and on demand accesses . A small sample network is used to theoretically test the whole model and the underlying concepts and solution strategy to show each step implemented in details and finally the applicability of the method is demonstrated using the Chicago City network .

@highlight Propose a solution to the media question Where is the app for escaping a hurricane .
@highlight Model ride sharing with transfers in a vehicle space time network.
@highlight Consider trip time window detour tolerance transfer time and vehicle parking time in the ride sharing framework.
@highlight Develop a Lagrangian relaxation algorithm for the multi dimensional network flow program.
@highlight Improve the performance of ondemand mobility services in short notice evacuations.
