 The range anxiety has been a major factor that affects the market acceptance of electric vehicles . Even with the recent development of battery technologies a lack of charging stations and range anxiety are still significant concerns specifically for intercity trips . This calls for more investments in building charging stations and advancing battery technologies to increase the market share of electric vehicles and improve sustainability . This study suggests a configuration for plug in electric vehicle charging infrastructure to support long distance intercity trips of electric vehicles at the network level . A model is proposed to minimize the total system cost including infrastructure investment and travel time delays . This study fills existing gaps in the literature by capturing realistic patterns of travel demand and considering flow dependent charging delays at charging stations . Furthermore the proposed model which is formulated as a mixed integer program with nonlinear constraints solves the optimization problem at the network level . At the network level impacts of charging station locations on the traffic assignment problem with a mixed fleet of electric and conventional vehicles need to be considered . To this end a traffic assignment module is integrated with a simulated annealing algorithm . The numerical experiments show a satisfactory application of the model for a full scale case study . The solution quality and efficiency of the proposed solution algorithm are evaluated against those of an enumeration approach for a small case study . The results suggest that even for the current market share and charging stations setting a significant investment is needed to support intercity trips without range anxiety issues and with acceptable delays . Furthermore through sensitivity analyses the required infrastructure and battery investments to support intercity trips with acceptable delays are established for hypothetical increased market shares and battery size in the future .

@highlight Optimizing charging station locations and number of chargers for inter city trips.
@highlight Minimizing infrastructure cost and users detour waiting and charging delays.
@highlight Tracking state of charge and allowing multiple recharging for long distance trips.
@highlight Proposing a meta heuristic solution algorithm based on the Simulated Annealing.
@highlight Practical insights by sensitivity analyses on market share and battery size.
