 The combination of self driving technology and taxis has a considerable potential in improving service quality and economic efficiency that can completely change traditional taxi operation . This study accordingly focuses on the autonomous taxi dispatching problem in hybrid request mode where travelers can either request immediate rides or reserve taxi services ahead of time . In this study a centralized dispatcher and decentralized autonomous dispatchers are designed to plan short term and long term routes for aTaxis in real time respectively . The centralized dispatcher integrates vehicle to passenger assignment with empty vehicle rebalance to guarantee solution quality . Decentralized autonomous dispatchers distribute a portion of the calculation to aTaxis thus reducing the centralized dispatchers workload . The dispatching strategy ensures that the response to traveler requests can be made immediately and if such requests are accepted the travelers will receive the expected services . Finally experiments are conducted based on the actual road network and the trip data of Manhattan to investigate the dispatching strategy . The results confirm the high performance of the proposed dispatching strategies in terms of service quality and economic efficiency . It is also found that the increase in reservation rates can enhance the robustness of the method with respect to errors in predicted requests . Moreover when the number of vehicles is adequate and reservations are made longer ahead of time the completion rate of requests and the revenue improve .

@highlight Propose a dispatching method to assign autonomous taxis to immediate requests and reservation requests simultaneously.
@highlight Jointly optimize vehiclepassenger assignment and empty vehicle rebalance.
@highlight Decentralize part of dispatching calculation to autonomous taxis to improve computational efficiency.
@highlight Conduct various experiments to test the dispatching method using real world data from Manhattan New York.
