 Based on digital transformation processes public mobility is experiencing tremendous and far reaching change . The use of information and communication technology enables disruptive mobility solutions that have recently became known as mobility as a service . MaaS promises great economic potential and supports the idea of a more efficient allocation of transport resources . However the main motivational mechanisms behind travelers adoption intention are still unknown . This research identifies key motivational determinants and investigates their structural interrelations . Based on a literature review we first identify the fundamental characteristics of MaaS . Building on this common understanding we conduct qualitative in depth interviews with potential end users to explore motivational acceptance factors . We draw from our inductive findings to postulate a structural causal equation model that captures motivational mechanisms behind the intention to adopt MaaS . Finally the model will be quantitatively validated based on a comprehensive survey and the use of partial least squares analysis . We show that psychological needs play a crucial role in the acceptance of MaaS . The results demonstrate that anticipated advantages of autonomy competence and the feeling of being related to a social peer group affect hedonic motivation and the expected usefulness of MaaS offerings which equally affect behavioral intention . We also introduce a novel theoretical construct and show that in the present disruptive context cognitive congruency between existing habit schemata and anticipated MaaS usage patterns significantly affect the judgment process and behavioral intention . Finally important implications for market strategy product development and policy measures will be discussed .

@highlight We explore main motivational mechanisms behind the intention to adopt MaaS.
@highlight We combine inductive exploration with quantitative deductive research and PLS SEM.
@highlight Adoption intention is equally driven by usefulness perceptions and hedonic motives.
@highlight Important role of psychological needs and habit related cognitive schemata.
