 The Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram which exhibits the relationship between average flow and average density of an urban network is a promising framework for monitoring and controlling urban traffic networks . Given that monitoring resources are limited in real world networks acquiring adequate data to estimate an MFD is of crucial importance . This study presents a novel network wide approach to identifying critical links and estimating average traffic flow and density . The proposed model estimates the MFD using flow and density measurements from those critical links which constitute only a small subset of all the links in the network . To find the critical links we rely on historical probe vehicle data and propose a model that builds on Principal Component Analysis a dimensionality reduction and a feature selection method . Essentially using PCA a large number of possibly interrelated variables in a dataset can be reduced to a set of smaller uncorrelated variables while maintaining as much information as possible in the dataset . The resulting uncorrelated variables or the principal components indicate the major patterns or the dominating features of the original dataset . Additionally PCA enables the reconstruction of the full scale dataset from the selected features . In this work we apply PCA in order to identify the main traffic features from a probe vehicle dataset then we find the links that are associated with these features then we locate loop detectors on those links to collect flow and density data and finally we reconstruct the full scale data building on the PCA mechanism . This gives us the flow and density of all links from which we can effectively estimate the MFD .

@highlight Developing a method based on Principal Component Analysis PCA to identify critical links.
@highlight Reconstructing network scale traffic measurements from critical links.
@highlight Estimating Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram MFD for large scale urban networks using only critical links.
