 With an increasing number of automated vehicles appearing on roads and interacting with conventional traffic there is a need for improved simulation approaches to replicate and forecast the resulting effects . Interactions between AVs and their drivers and interaction with other human drivers involve new types of complex behavioural processes . There is an increasing necessity to explicitly incorporate these human factor processes in simulation which can not be properly accounted for with most current models . In this paper we present an extended conceptual simulation framework based on human factors processes and applicable for automated driving that does this . The framework makes use of previously constructed constructs to include the effects of driver task demand situation awareness and fundamental diagrams of task demand to extend to automated driving . This is especially considered for the case of transition of control as an important aspect of vehicle driver interaction . The framework is demonstrated in two experimental cases that consider different ToC situations and is found to be face valid within the applied assumptions . Challenges remain in regard to a lack of quantitative evidence from traffic psychology automated vehicle dynamics control and human vehicle interaction . With increasing amounts of research on going in these areas the extended framework will act as a valuable approach to further study and quantify the effects of AVs in mixed traffic in the future .

@highlight Interactions with driver and automated vehicles involve new types of complex behavioural processes.
@highlight Modelling these processes requires explicit inclusion of human factors in simulation.
@highlight An extended modelling framework is presented for mixed traffic that includes these behavioural interactions.
@highlight This novel approach explicitly considers driver cognitive loading and related performance with automated vehicles.
@highlight Two experimental cases considering transition of control demonstrate the face validity of the approach.
