 Understanding metro passengers travel plan choice behavior under unplanned service disruptions is vital for transit agencies . It allows capturing the changes in the demands of the passengers adopting measures aimed at minimizing the impact on the transit system and ensuring the safety of the interrupted passengers . Different from planned metro service disruptions unplanned service disruptions can not be known in advance and have high uncertainty . However little is known regarding the role of the uncertain duration in the decision making process and the taste heterogeneity in the behavior under unplanned metro service disruptions . To fill this gap we first established a time interval in each scenario of a stated preference questionnaire to indicate the uncertain duration and conducted a web based survey . Based on the survey data collected at Guangzhou China we developed an error component latent class model for travel plan choice behavior considering uncertainty and heterogeneity . The model result showed that the population can be classified into two classes uncertainty pessimists and uncertainty optimists who have a strong and weak perception of the uncertainty of the disruption duration respectively based on socio demographic and travel characteristic attributes . Concurrently the perception of uncertainty in both the classes is enhanced during peak hours and when a passenger enters a station . The findings of this study provide more insights into passengers travel behavior under unplanned service disruptions with uncertainty . Moreover they can assist transit agencies in adopting effective management strategies which in turn will aid in improving the service quality for its passengers .

@highlight Uncertain duration indicated by the time interval is integrated into the utility.
@highlight Passengers are divided into two significant classes based on the latent class model.
@highlight Each class has a different perception of the disruption durations uncertainty.
@highlight The impact of occurrence period and passengers location on behavior are quantified.
