 Connected automated vehicles have been currently considered as promising solutions for realization of envisioned autonomous traffic management systems in the future . CAVs can achieve high desired traffic efficiency and provide safe energy saving and comfortable ride experience for passengers . However in order to practically implement such autonomous systems based on CAVs there exist several significant challenges to be dealt with such as coupled spatiotemporal constraints on CAVs trajectories at unsignalized intersections multiple objectives for trajectory optimization in road segments and heterogeneous decision making behaviors of CAVs in road networks with highly dynamic traffic demand . In this paper we propose a cooperative autonomous traffic organization method for CAVs in multi intersection road networks . The methodological framework consists of threefold components an autonomous crossing strategy based on a conflict resolution approach at unsignalized intersections multi objective trajectory optimization in road segments and a composite strategy for route planning considering heterogeneous decision making behaviors of CAVs based on social and individual benefit respectively . Specifically we first identify a set of potential conflict points of different CAVs spatial trajectories at the intersection and then design different minimum safe time headways to resolve conflicts . Under the constraints of entry and exit conditions at adjacent intersections we propose a multi objective optimal control model by jointly considering vehicle safety energy conservation and ride comfort and then analytically derive a closed form solution for optimizing the CAVs trajectories . Furthermore with the purpose to adapt dynamic traffic demand we propose a composite strategy for route planning by coordinating heterogeneous decision making behaviors of CAVs in road networks . Finally extensive simulation experiments have been performed to validate our proposed method and to demonstrate its advantage over conventional baseline schemes in terms of global traffic efficiency . Additional numerical results are also provided to shed light on the impact of the proportion of CAVs with heterogeneous decision making behaviors on the global system performance .

@highlight An effective traffic organization method is proposed for CAVs in road networks.
@highlight An effective iterative adjustment strategy is used to optimize trajectories.
@highlight A novel composite road planning strategy is designed for different demands.
@highlight The proposed method ensures safe efficient energy saving and comfortable trips.
