 Traffic signals while serving an important function to coordinate vehicle movements through intersections also cause frequent stops and delays particularly when they are not properly timed . Such stops and delays contribute to significant amount of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions . The recent development of connected and automated vehicle technology provides new opportunities to enable better control of vehicles and intersections that in turn reduces fuel consumption and emissions . In this paper we propose a trajectory optimization method PTO GFC to reduce the total fuel consumption of a CAV platoon through a signalized intersection . In this method we first apply platoon trajectory optimization to obtain the optimal trajectories of the platoon vehicles . In PTO all CAVs in one platoon are considered as a whole that is all other CAVs follow the trajectory of the leading one with a time delay and minimum safety gap which is enabled by vehicle to vehicle communication . Then we apply gap feedback control to control the vehicles with different speeds and headways merging into the optimal trajectories . We compare the PTO GFC method with the other two methods in which the leading vehicle adopts the optimal trajectory or drive with maximum speed respectively and the other vehicles follow the leading vehicle with a simplified Gipps car following model . Furthermore we extend the controls into multiple platoons by considering the interactions between the two platoons . The numerical results demonstrate that PTO GFC has better performance than LTO and AT particularly when CAVs have enough space and time to smooth their trajectories . The reduction of travel time and fuel consumption shows the great potential of CAV technology in reducing congestion and negative environmental impact of automobile transportation .

@highlight A platoon trajectory optimization PTO method is proposed to reduce fuel use.
@highlight The PTO method also reduced platoon travel time.
@highlight The PTO method is extended to multiple platoons with a boundary constraint.
@highlight The extended PTO allows platoons to move through multiple intersections efficiently.
