 Passenger cars account for most road transportation emissions and almost half of overall transport sector emissions in the EU . Countries in Europe have established policies to achieve emissions reductions in the transport sector by incentivizing the acquisition of fuel efficient vehicles . In this paper we perform a pair wise comparison of common passenger vehicles sold in 2017 which implements newer data and more realistic assumptions than an earlier study . The pair wise study compares an electric vehicle against a similar combustion vehicle to simulate a real market choice for consumersa method commonly used to elicit preferencesand shows that fiscal incentives are effective at increasing EV acquisition . Acquiring EVs over conventional vehicles alone contributes to about a 60 reduction per kilometer of well to wheel emissions based on average emissions of new EU vehicle fleets in 2017 . A second mechanism at reducing emissions in the transport sector is through incentivizing consumer charging behavior to use less carbon intense electricity . The electricity used to charge EVs is variable throughout a day therefore we propose a dynamic pricing mechanism dependent on the carbon intensity of the electricity grid . We do this analysis through a case study for Portugal using the entire countrys public charging demands from 2017 . The responsiveness of the users to the variable price is reflected by the market price elasticity of demand and the resulting reduction in demand from the surcharge is approximated . Our study finds that a surcharging mechanism based on the carbon intensity of the electric grid can yield an emissions reduction of 20 tonnes per year while still achieving profits .

@highlight This research analyzes the entire public charging demand of Portugal over a full year with more than 225 000 charging events.
@highlight A case study of the emissions impact of Portuguese public electric vehicle charging demonstrates additional emissions reductions can be achieved through pricing mechanisms.
@highlight Policies and incentives for vehicle acquisition across seven European countries are compared replicating results of an earlier study with newer data.
@highlight Charging stations can remain profitable while charging more for carbon intense electricity.
