 Bike sharing systems being viewed as providing green transportation modes are growing rapidly in recent years . While BSS operators try to improve the system performance through bike rebalancing and launching more bikes the current BSSs are facing several sustainability challenges . Bike oversupply could bring intensive greenhouse gas emissions due to manufacturing excessive bikes while frequent bike rebalancing could significantly increase fuel consumption of rebalancing vehicles . Existing studies only optimized given BSS from the system operational perspective with predetermined bike fleet size and rebalancing frequencies . However the bike fleet size and rebalancing should also be optimized from the life cycles perspective . This study proposes a framework to obtain the optimal bike fleet size and rebalancing strategy to minimize the systems life cycle GHG emissions integrating a simulation model for fleet size estimation an optimization model for bike rebalancing and a life cycle assessment model to quantify the systems GHG emission rate . The framework is applied to a dock less BSS in Xiamen China as a case study to evaluate the tradeoff between having more bikes and more frequent rebalancing . Our results show that the current BSS in Xiamen is significantly oversupplied with only 15 of current bikes needed to serve the same demands decreasing bike fleet size through more frequent rebalancing will increase the systems life cycle GHG emissions and choosing appropriate rebalancing fleet size loading capacity and setting multiple depots can reduce a BSS rebalancing GHG emissions .

@highlight Proposed a modeling framework to optimize bike sharing systems fleet size and rebalancing.
@highlight Less frequent rebalancing can reduce dock less BSS life cycle GHG emission rate.
@highlight The current dock less BSS in Xiamen China is significantly oversupplied with bikes.
@highlight Rebalancing vehicle fleet can be optimized to reduce rebalancing GHG emissions.
@highlight Having multiple rebalancing depots can help reduce systems GHG emissions.
