 The establishment of dedicated automated vehicle lanes has been regarded as an effective approach for addressing heterogeneous traffic with both AVs and regular vehicles promoting both traffic efficiency and safety . However building new dedicated AV lanes in urban areas is not cost effective in the early stage of AV adoption . Fortunately dedicated bus rapid transit lanes can provide a separate right of way for AVs which is a practical and economical alternative for promoting AV development . In this paper we propose an innovative idea of allowing AVs to use dedicated BRT lanes and quantitatively analyze the stationary performance of mixed use lanes . Specifically the analysis is conducted through a cyclic spacetime model for AVs on the mixed use lane and a sequential optimization method is proposed to approximately solve the model . With the SOM providing a valid tool for performance evaluation we then develop an assignment model for the routing of AVs on a traffic corridor with both mixed use lane and general purpose lanes to minimize the total travel time of both AVs and RVs . The model is formulated as a black box nonlinear program without an explicit analytical form a successive linear programming algorithm with finite difference for gradient approximation is then utilized to solve the nonlinear program . Numerical experiments are conducted in different scenarios which reveal that the establishment of the mixed use lane can not only improve the efficiency of AVs but also alleviate the congestion on general purpose lanes .

@highlight An innovative idea of implementing a mixed use BRT AV lane by allowing AVs to use dedicated BRT lanes.
@highlight A quantitative evaluation model for the performance on the BRT AV lane under different traffic inputs.
@highlight An optimal assignment model of AVs on the entire corridor of general purpose lanes and the mixed use lane.
@highlight Both numerical experiments and simulation experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
