 Studies in several cities indicate that ridesourcing may increase traffic and congestion given the substitution of more sustainable modes and the addition of empty kilometers . On the other hand there is little evidence if smartphone apps that target shared rides have any influence on reducing traffic levels . We study the effects of a shared mobility service offered by a start up in Mexico City Jetty which is used by travelers to book a shared ride in a car van or bus . A large scale user survey was conducted to study trip characteristics reasons for using the platform and the general travel choices of Jetty users . We calculate travel distance per trip leg for the current choices and for the modes that riders would have chosen if the platform was not available . We find that the effect of the platform on vehicle kilometers traveled depends on the rate of empty kilometers introduced by the fleet of vehicles the substitution of public versus private transport modes the occupancy rate of Jetty vehicles and assumptions on the occupancy rate of substituted modes . Following a sensitivity analysis approach for variables with unavailable data we estimate that shared rides in cars increase VKT shared vans are able to decrease VKT whereas buses are estimated to increase VKT in our preferred scenarios . These results stem from the tradeoff between the effects of the occupancy rates per vehicle and the attractiveness of the service for car users . Our findings point to the relevance of shared rides in bigger vehicles such as vans as competitors to low occupancy car services for the future of mobility in cities and to the improvement of public transportation services through the inclusion of quality attributes as provided by new shared mobility services .

@highlight Ridesourcing has been shown to likely increase traffic.
@highlight The actual effect of apps for shared rides on traffic levels is unknown.
@highlight The impact of shared rides on empty kilometers and traffic levels is studied.
@highlight Shared rides in cars increase VKT but shared rides in vans reduce VKT.
