 Although previous studies have explored predictors of Congestion Charging acceptability and acceptance there is no study investigating the rule breaking behaviour towards a CC scheme . The current study thus examined the effects of a wide range of attitudinal factors as well as demographic socioeconomic built environment and travel related characteristics on rule breaking following behaviour towards an ongoing CC scheme . Our major contribution to the state of the art is threefold we reveal the extent to which citizens break the rule of an active scheme and illegally drive through the CC area we simultaneously test the relative roles of several latent attitudinal and observed variables in the type of rule breaking following conduct in an integrated framework through developing a hybrid choice model and we empirically investigate how and to what extent the level of legitimacy of an active CC scheme appears in a city in the Middle East context where politicians have neglected the direct participation of public via referendum voting in the policy process behind the introduction of the CC . A sample of car users was recruited during February and March 2019 in Tehran . A cross sectional design using a self report questionnaire survey was conducted . Out of 622 citizens participated in this study 595 valid observations were used for analysis . Our findings showed significant difference between predictors for those frequently broke and those who rarely or occasionally broke the rule of CC . The finding also revealed that latent attitudinal factors could have greater impacts on rule breaking behaviour than observed variables . Lack of trust in government concerning final use of CC revenues and a lower perceived effectiveness of the CC had the strongest influence on the probability of violating the CC rule . We suggested both short and long term policies to deal with the issues of legitimacy and survival of the CC scheme . With regard to short term policy using media and social networks the issue of complexity and lack of information about the charging system need to be well addressed . Considering long term policy entrusting management system from governmental authorities to a private system as well as launching environmental campaigns could increase the public trust and effectiveness of the CC scheme respectively .

@highlight We investigated the extent to which citizens break the rule of an active congestion charging scheme.
@highlight Latent attitudinal and observed variables were simultaneously tested via an HCM analysis.
@highlight Lack of trust in government and a lower perceived effectiveness had the strongest influences.
@highlight Using non governmental media the issue of complexity and lack of information need to be well addressed.
@highlight As for long term policy entrusting management system to a private system and launching environmental campaigns are plausible solutions.
