 While a number of studies have investigated driving behaviors detailed microscopic driving data has only recently become available for analysis . Through Basic Safety Message data from the Michigan Safety Pilot Program this study applies a Markov Decision Process framework to understand driving behavior in terms of acceleration deceleration and maintaining speed decisions . Personally Revealed Choices that maximize the expected sum of rewards for individual drivers are obtained by analyzing detailed data from 120 trips and the application of MDP . Specifically this paper defines states based on the number of objects around the host vehicle and the distance to the front object . Given the states individual drivers reward functions are estimated using the multinomial logit model and used in the MDP framework . Optimal policies are obtained through a value iteration algorithm . The results show that as the number of objects increases around a host vehicle the driver prefer to accelerate in order to escape the crowdedness around them . In addition when trips are segmented based on the level of crowdedness increased levels of trip crowdedness results in a fewer number of drivers accelerating because the traffic conditions constrain them to maintaining constant speed or deceleration . One potential application of this study is to generate short term predictive driver decision information through historical driving performance which can be used to warn a host vehicle driver when the person substantially deviates from their own historical PRC . This information could also be disseminated to surrounding vehicles as well enabling them to foresee the states and actions of other drivers and potentially avoid collisions .

@highlight Microscopic driving decisions are analyzed using Connected Vehicle Data and Markov Decision Process.
@highlight Speed choices were extracted from Basic Safety Messages to understand drivers behavior.
@highlight States were defined based on crowdedness surrounding the host vehicle and distance to the front object.
@highlight Perceived individual rewards from state transitions were estimated from revealed choices.
@highlight A method for learning personalized driving preferences was developed which can be used to provide warnings.
