 Ridesourcing services provided by companies like Uber Lyft and Didi have grown rapidly over the past decade and now serve a sizable portion of trips in many metropolitan areas . An understanding of these services is critical for regulating planning and managing urban multi modal transportation systems effectively . Unfortunately little is known about ridesourcing travel because private companies providing ridesourcing services were not previously subject to data sharing requirements . Fortunately the city of Chicago recently collected and released spatially and temporally aggregated data on ridesourcing trips collected from private companies . This study analyzes the Chicago ridesourcing data to examine factors influencing ridesourcing usage . The study employs a random effects negative binomial regression approach to model ridesourcing usage . Determinants considered in the model include weekend vs. weekday and weather variables as well as census tract socio demographics and commute characteristics land use variables places of interest transit supply parking features and crime . The model results indicate ridesourcing demand is higher on days when temperatures are lower there is less precipitation and on the weekend as well as in census tracts with higher household incomes a higher percentage of workers who carpool or take transit to work a higher percentage of households with zero vehicles higher population and employment density higher land use diversity fewer parking spots and higher parking rates more restaurants and more homicides . The results also demonstrate a non linear relationship between ridesourcing demand and transit supply variables . The paper discusses the implications of these model results to inform transportation planning and policymaking as well as future research .

@highlight Ridesourcing services have a substantial and growing market share role in urban transport systems.
@highlight Study analyzes Chicago ridesourcing trip data largest and newest public ridesourcing data in US.
@highlight Ridesourcing usage higher in census tracts with fewer parking spots and higher parking rates.
@highlight Restaurants population and employment density and land use diversity positively associated with ridesourcing usage.
@highlight More bus stops associated with higher ridesourcing usage rail stations and ridesourcing usage have nonlinear relationship.
