 This study models a multi modal network with ridesharing services . The developed model reproduces the scenario where travelers with their own cars may choose to be a solo driver a ridesharing driver a ridesharing rider or a public transit passenger while travelers without their own cars can only choose to be either a ridesharing rider or a public transit passenger . The developed model can capture the time dependent choices of travelers and the evolution of traffic conditions i.e . the within day traffic dynamics . In particular the within day traffic dynamics in a city region is modeled through an aggregate traffic representation i.e . the Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram . This paper further develops a doubly dynamical system that examines how the within day time dependent travelers choices and traffic conditions will evolve from day to day i.e . the day to day dynamics . Based on the doubly dynamical framework this paper proposes two different congestion pricing schemes that aim to reduce network congestion and improve traffic efficiency . One scheme is to price all vehicles including both solo driving and ridesharing vehicles while the other scheme prices the solo driving vehicles only in order to encourage ridesharing . The pricing levels can be determined either through an adaptive adjustment mechanism from period to period driven by observed traffic conditions or through solving a bi level optimization problem . Numerical studies are conducted to illustrate the models and effectiveness of the pricing schemes . The results indicate that the emerging ridesharing platform may not necessarily reduce traffic congestion but the proposed congestion pricing schemes can effectively reduce congestion and improve system performance . While pricing solo driving vehicles only may encourage ridesharing it can be less effective in reducing the overall congestion when compared to pricing both solo driving and ridesharing vehicles .

@highlight This study models the ridesharing program in a doubly dynamical system.
@highlight This study adopts a trip based MFD approach to model within day traffic dynamics.
@highlight This study finds that the emerging ridesharing program may not necessarily reduce traffic congestion.
@highlight This study develops and compares different pricing strategies to improve system performance.
