 Several studies have made manifest that involvement with public transport play a key role in the intentions of its use . However conflicting models exist in the literature about involvements role in the relationship between service quality satisfaction and behavioral intentions or loyalty . Previous studies suggest all possible roles antecedent mediator moderator and direct effects . A structural equation modeling approach is applied here to further understand the role of involvement with public transport comparing eight alternative models and using data from a single survey carried out in five European cities . Later the study uses a multiple indicators and multiple causes structural equation modeling approach to analyze the effect of heterogeneity present in the data over the four constructs considered . This comprehensive methodological approach provides a number of noteworthy findings including the empirical verification that satisfaction is a full mediator between service quality and involvement and involvement is a full mediator between satisfaction and behavioral intentions . The results further suggest that involvement is the factor that contributes most to behavioral intentions or loyalty followed by service quality perceptions and satisfaction . Lastly this study demonstrates the relevance of controlling for heterogeneity in users perceptions so as to obtain more robust relations among factors and identify significant differences among market segments which could prove useful for public transport operators or policy makers .

@highlight The relationship among SQ SA INV and BI is analyzed using 8 models and 5 samples.
@highlight Results suggest that INV is a complete mediator between SA and BI or loyalty.
@highlight Results also suggest that SA is a complete mediator between SQ and INV towards PT.
@highlight INV is the factor with the highest effect on BI followed by SQ and SA.
@highlight The following sociodemographic characteristics produce heterogeneity in the factors.
@highlight City household location gender age travel frequency education and income level.
