 This paper proposes a hierarchical Bayesian network model to quantitatively evaluate the resilience of urban transportation systems . Based on systemic thinking and taking a sustainability perspective we investigate the long term resilience of the road transportation systems in four cities in China from 1998 to 2017 namely Beijing Tianjin Shanghai and Chongqing respectively . The model takes into account various factors collected from multi source data platforms involved in stages of design construction operation management and innovation in road transportation systems . We test the model with the forward inference sensitivity analysis and backward inference . The result shows that the overall resilience scores of all four cities transportation systems are within a moderate range with values between 49 to 59 . Although they all have an ever increasing economic level the levels of transportation resilience in Beijing and Tianjin decrease first and then gradually increase in a long run which indicates a strong multi dimensional dynamic and non linear characteristic in resilience economic coupling effect . Additionally the results obtained from the sensitivity analysis and backward inference suggest that decision makers should pay more attention to the capabilities of quickly rebuilding and making changes to cope with future disturbances . As an exploratory study this study clarifies the concepts of long term multi dimensional resilience and specific hazard related resilience and provides an effective decision support tool for stakeholders when building resilient infrastructure .

@highlight A novel BNM is proposed to evaluate multi faceted transportation resilience.
@highlight Forward inference sensitivity tests and backward inference are conducted.
@highlight Long term transportation resilience is highly dynamic in the tested cities.
@highlight The coupling effects of resilience with economic level is not always linear.
@highlight Abilities to rebuild and adapt through reconfiguration are of importance.
