 Sidewalks are a critical infrastructure to facilitate essential daily trips for pedestrian and wheelchair users . The dependence on the infrastructure and the increasing demand from these users press public transportation agencies for cost effective sidewalk maintenance and better Americans with Disabilities Act compliance . Unfortunately most of the agencies still rely on outdated sidewalk mapping data or manual survey results for their sidewalk management . In this study a network level sidewalk inventory method is proposed by efficiently segmenting the mobile light detection and ranging data using a customized deep neural network i.e . PointNet and followed by integrating a stripe based sidewalk extraction algorithm . By extracting the sidewalk locations from the mobile LiDAR point cloud the corresponding geometry features e.g . width grade cross slope etc . can be extracted for the ADA compliance and the overall condition assessment . The experimental test conducted on the entire State Route 9 Massachusetts has shown promising performance in terms of the accuracy for the sidewalk extraction value of 0.946 and the efficiency for network analysis of the ADA compliance . A case study conducted in Columbus District in Boston Massachusetts demonstrates that the proposed method can not only successfully support transportation agencies with an accurate and efficient means for network level sidewalk inventory but also support wheelchair users with accurate and comprehensive sidewalk inventory information for better navigation and route planning .

@highlight Develops a fully automated network level sidewalk inventory method that leverages the emerging mobile LiDAR and deep learning.
@highlight Develops a reliable deep learning model based on PointNet for accurately and efficiently segmenting LiDAR point clouds.
@highlight Develops a stripe based principal component analysis PCA for accurately extracting sidewalk and conducting the corresponding geometry measurement for ADA compliance.
@highlight Advances the understanding and utilization of mobile LiDAR and deep learning in critical pedestrian infrastructure management and accessibility analysis.
