 Previous studies have explored the relationships between an individuals use of information and communication technology and their travel . However these studies often focus on one specific type of travel and have not considered new forms of mobility such as ride hailing that are enabled by greater ICT penetration . This paper focuses on how ICT use impacts an individuals self reported travel behaviorincluding total number of trips personal miles traveled and vehicle miles traveled in a typical travel dayand ride hailing use in the past month . Specifically we investigate whether substitution or complementarity dominates the relationships between ICT use and an individuals net travel how ICT impacts individual ride hailing adoption and frequency of use and how ride hailing use is associated with an individuals overall travel behavior . Using data from the 2017 U.S. National Household Travel Survey we estimate a structural equation model that includes a robust set of individual household built environment and travel characteristics frequency of ICT use and a hurdle model of the adoption and frequency of ride hailing use . Results reveal that greater ICT is not significantly related to the total number of trips that an individual takes but it does significantly predict higher PMT and VMT . Greater ICT use is positively and substantively correlated with whether or not the individual has used ride hailing in the past 30days but has no significant relationship with the frequency of ride hailing use with this bounded outcome being controlled for . We further find that an individuals ride hailing use has a small negative correlation with their PMT and VMT after controlling for other common factors . Our results indicate the importance of future research examining the mechanisms by which ICT use increases the distance individuals travel and the role that new ICT enabled modes such as ride hailing play in changing these mechanisms at both the individual and system levels .

@highlight Examine how ICT use impacts an individuals travel behavior and ride hailing use.
@highlight Study how ride hailing use is associated with an individuals travel behavior.
@highlight Greater ICT use significantly predicts higher PMT and VMT.
@highlight ICT use is positively and substantively correlated with individual ride hailing adoption.
@highlight Ride hailing use of the passenger is slightly negatively correlated with PMT and VMT.
