 It is well known that faster and less expensive transit systems with shorter walking distances as well as less transfers are associated with transit use . In this regard recent studies have focused on estimating transits competitiveness and further suggested possible policy interventions . However there were not much attention on measuring travel time and cost differences between transit and auto by considering the temporal variability . In addition only a limited study have focused on the impact of either walking during transfers on mode choice or the stage of walking that most affects mode choice . This paper provides additional insights into the impact of travel time cost and transit burdens on commute mode choice based on the analysis in a transit oriented mega city Seoul Korea . Together with the 2016 household travel survey data we utilize the web based route guide information to measure time cost and transit burdens for both chosen and non chosen modes . The results reveal that commuters are significantly affected by the travel time and cost difference between modes . Additionally the results indicate that the odds of driving increases by 4.7 and 24.3 when commuters have to transfer once or more than once respectively . Also commuters were mostly disinclined to walk longer distances during transfer and egress . The effect of time cost and transit burdens on mode choice also varied by income and age groups further implying the group of people that should be focused when devising policies to encourage transit use . To conclude this paper suggests potential levers for transportation policies to trigger modal shifts toward sustainable modes by using advanced data sources that better estimate the travel characteristics by departure time based on a point to point travel survey data .

@highlight Travel time and cost difference between modes impact commute mode choice.
@highlight Commuters significantly prefer driving when transfers are required more than once.
@highlight Longer walking distances during transfer and egress affect mode choice.
@highlight Commuters from different income and age groups react distinctively.
@highlight Policy implications for auto to transit modal shifts are elaborated.
