 License plate recognition data are emerging data sources in urban transportation systems which contain rich information . Large scale LPR systems have seen rapid development in many parts of the world . However limited by privacy considerations LPR data are seldom available to the research community which lead to huge research gap in data driven applications . In this study we propose a complete solution using LPR data for link based traffic state estimation and prediction for arterial networks . The proposed integrative data driven framework provides the inference of both cycle maximum queue length states and average travel times of links using LPR data from a subset of intersections in an arterial network . The framework contains three novel data driven sub components that are highly customized based on the characteristics of LPR data including a traffic signal timing inference model to find signal timing information from the LPR timestamp sequences a light weighted queue length approximation model to estimate lane based cycle maximum queue lengths and a network wide traffic state inference model to perform network level estimation and prediction using partially observed data . This study exploits and utilizes the unique features of LPR data and other similar vehicle re identification data for urban network wide link based traffic state estimation and prediction . A six days LPR dataset from a small road network in the city of Langfang in China and a more comprehensive link level field experiment dataset are used to validate the model . Numerical results show that the framework provides good estimation and prediction accuracy . The proposed framework is efficient and calibration free which can be easily implemented in urban networks for various real time traffic monitoring and control applications .

@highlight Urban network level traffic states inference model using partially available data.
@highlight Complete solution for link queue lengths and travel times inference using LPR data.
@highlight New framework combines traffic flow theory and customized machine learning models.
@highlight Applicable to LPR data and other similar vehicle re identification data.
@highlight The framework is efficient calibration free and easily deployable in real world.
