 The third party platform channel has been widely used in addition to the traditional retail channel to sell products . In practice some third party platforms provide financing services to small businesses that sell products on them . However few studies addressed the capital constraint problem faced by a manufacturer who sells products through both retailers and third party platforms especially when considering the third party platforms lending service behavior . This research establishes a model where a capital constrained manufacturer sells products through a retailer and a third party platform and may pursue a financing strategy by borrowing from the third party platform the retailer or the bank . We investigate the impact of the third party platforms or retailers dual rolelending provider and channel participanton dual channel operational management and study the manufacturers financing strategy choices by comparing profits under different financing strategies . The results of our analysis show that for the manufacturer the 3PF strategy is always better than the BF strategy . Furthermore the manufacturer is more likely to prefer the RF strategy to the 3PF strategy as the channel competition increases or as the revenue sharing rate or unit production cost decreases . We also find that the retailers retail price increases as the revenue sharing rate increases if there is no capital constraint but it decreases under the BF and 3PF strategies . This indicates that the manufacturers financing behavior has a significant impact on the retailers retail price decision . We extend our model by considering random demand and find that these findings continue to hold when the potential demand equals its expected value .

@highlight The 3PF strategy is always better than the BF strategy.
@highlight RF is more likely to be better than 3PF as the channel competition increases.
@highlight 3PF is more likely to be preferred as the revenue sharing rate or unit production cost increases.
@highlight Financing behavior affects the revenue sharing rates impact on retail price.
