 In a power system with renewable energy sources the Low Frequency Oscillatory modes arise due to the intermittent nature of wind power loading and generating conditions . This is undesirable and results in system instability . If these LFO modes are not controlled it may lead to a power interruption and results in unstable . The LFO modes are damped by Power System Stabilizers . However it causes variation in voltage profile resulting in reduction instability of the system during large disturbances . In such cases the flexible ac transmission system controllers are required . This paper presents and compares the PSS Static synchronous Compensator and Static Var Compensator controller by replacing Synchronous Generator with same rated wind farm and various wind power penetration levels by considering system uncertainties such as wind speed . In this paper a robust coordinated method is proposed using Particle Swarm Optimization for optimizing parameters of controllers of PSS SVC and STATCOM . The real part and damping ratio of eigenvalues is the objective function for PSO and is formulated based on the small signal and transient analysis . Controller locations are determined by the deterministic method probabilistic method and power flow sensitivity analysis . An eigenvalue analysis approach based on the linearization of a nonlinear system using a state space model is conducted to analyse the Small Signal Stability performance . Time domain simulation is carried out for transient stability under large disturbance . The robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approaches for transient and small signal stability are evaluated on the IEEE 14 bus system . The results reveal that the proposed location and optimized gain parameters for controllers effectively damped the LFOs . It also intensifies the transient capability under extreme disturbances and shows enhancement in system stability .

@highlight This paper studies the effect of varying wind speed replacement of Synchronous Generator with DFIG at various locations and wind penetration with and without PSS SVC and STATCOM.
@highlight The objective function for PSO selected as the real part and damping ratio of eigenvalue. This PSO is used for tuning the control parameter.
@highlight The transient and small signal stability carried out by using time domain simulation and eigenvalue analysis.
@highlight The effectiveness and robustness of proposed approaches are verified considering IEEE 14 system.
