 This paper proposes a reliability constrained demand response based method to maximise the permissible penetration level of electric vehicles at electric power system buses . The continuous increase of EVs will deteriorate the reliability of power systems if no countermeasures are taken . Implementation of demand response programs can be an effective solution to reduce or even avoid load curtailments . Also the mobility of EV loads causes a dynamic change in load curtailments . This dynamic change can be captured through building load profiles for EVs considering drivers behaviour and preferences to charge EVs . The proposed method is developed based on a DR program and load profiles of EVs . In the proposed method existing load profiles are combined with load profiles for initial numbers of EVs at corresponding buses . The initial numbers are calculated based on total interruptible curtailable loads at system buses and peak load of EVs . Drivers behaviour and preferences in terms of charging times periods and locations are modelled in developing load profiles for EVs . Then I C loads based DR is implemented to restructure load profiles of system buses . Both incentives and penalties are considered to develop the DR program . Finally the maximum permissible penetration level is calculated by increasing the number of EVs until systems prior reliability level is achieved . The proposed method is demonstrated on the Roy Billinton Test System IEEE Reliability Test System and IEEE 33 Bus Distribution System . Monte Carlo simulation is performed to evaluate the well known reliability indices of power systems . The results show that the permissible penetration level of EVs in power systems can be increased significantly using the proposed method .

@highlight Constructing load profiles for electric vehicles considering driversbehaviour.
@highlight Implementing demand response to increase penetration level of electric vehicles.
@highlight Mathematical modelling of load profiles with demand response and electric vehicles.
@highlight Mathematical modelling of inceptives and penalties foractive participation.
