 This paper proposes a collaborative optimization allocation strategy for voltage detection active power filters with multiple functions and static var generators to improve voltage harmonic and voltage deviation of distribution networks . The integrated voltage sensitivity is defined considering VH and VD simultaneously . According to the local characteristic of power quality a partition algorithm based on integrated voltage sensitivity is developed to divide a network into several regions . Two methods based on single and integrated sensitivity are presented to determine dominant nodes as candidates of VDAPFs and SVGs in each region . The corresponding allocations of VDAPFs and SVGs are respectively provided considering the two methods . The sites and sizes of VDAPFs and SVGs are optimized through minimizing the total cost including investment and operation costs by improved particle swarm optimization algorithm . An integrated evaluation index based on economy and PQ disturbance mitigation effect is defined to evaluate the performance of the two allocations thereby determining an optimal allocation . The feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed strategy are verified implemented on IEEE 33 bus system and IEEE 69 bus system by comparing the two allocations with each other and with the conventional allocation strategy .

@highlight This paper proposes a collaborative optimization allocation strategy for voltage detection active power filters VDAPFs with multiple functions and static var generators SVGs .
@highlight The proposed strategy is built around the partitioning idea.
@highlight It develops two methods to determine dominant nodes as candidates of VDAPFs and SVGs in each region.
@highlight The performance of two Allocations of the proposed collaborative allocation strategy is evaluated using an integrated evaluation index.
@highlight It is more effective to cooperatively allocate multi types equipment to mitigate VH and VD than to mitigate VH or VD separately by allocating single type equipment.
