 This paper proposed a Peer to Peer local community energy pool and a User Dominated Demand Side Response that can help energy sharing and reduce energy bills of smart community . The proposed UDDSR allows energy users within the community to submit flexible Demand Response bids to Community Energy Management Scheme with flexible start time stop time and response durations with regard to users comfort zones for electric heating systems electric vehicles and other home appliances which gives maximum freedom to the DR participants . The scheduling of the DR bids originally a multi objective optimization problem is transferred to a single objective optimization problem that can significantly decrease the computational complexity . Furthermore to facilitate efficient energy usage among neighbourhoods a local energy pool is also proposed to enable the energy trading among users aiming to facilitate the usage of surplus energy within the community . The electricity price of energy pool is determined by the real time demand supply ratio and upper lower limit for the price is configured to ensure the profitability for all the participants within the pool . To evaluate the performance of proposed UDDSR and local energy pool comprehensive numerical analysis is conducted . It is found that the energy pool participants without PV can get at least 6.16 savings on electricity bill . The energy pool participants with PV can get much better return on the PV generation compared to the conventional Feed in Tariff . If energy users join the UDDSR scheme the participants can get further return and the proposed UDDSR can provide a constant load reduction increase during the every time interval of the whole DR event . If Battery Energy Storage System is included in the DR operation the usage efficiency of customers flexible loads can achieve more than 85 .

@highlight This paper presents a full picture of a smart community energy management scheme with User Dominated Demand Response UDDSR and Peer to Peer P2P trading.
@highlight This paper proposes the approach for simplifying the UDDSR problem as a single objective Mixed Integer Linear Programming MILP problem which significantly reduces the computational complexity.
@highlight This paper proposes a electricity pricing model for P2P trading that can reduce price fluctuation in a real time electricity market by introducing the surplus to demand ratio.
