 Technical specifications of the generating units affect their primary frequency reserve activation amounts and quality which have significant effects on power system security and reliability . This paper discusses the technical value of generating units participating in primary frequency control based on all their influential parameters . Initially the formulation of the active power calculation of the generating units in response to frequency variations is developed . The concept of Weighted Average of Frequency Active Power Change is introduced and its continuous and discrete formulation with different types of weighting function are proposed afterwards . Also a novel general frequency profile is formulated for the incidents . Then the procedure for the technical valuation index calculation is presented while discussing its theoretical convergence issue and stopping criterion . The calculated index has the quantity with the same dimension and unit of electrical power which leads to a quantitative and meaningful comparison of the generating units with possible applications in many areas such as remuneration rescheduling market designing and technical economic investigation . Numerical results based on a real large scale power grid validated data are presented . These include active power formulation validation normal condition and incidents frequency variations statistical data convergence demonstration time frame selection and index calculation for various generating units types . The results demonstrate the accuracy and sufficiency of the proposed concepts and formulations .

@highlight Proposing a technical primary frequency valuation index for the generating units.
@highlight Introducing the Weighted Average of Frequency Active Power Change WAFAPC .
@highlight Formulating and validating the frequency active power change of generating units.
@highlight Proposing a new general frequency profile for the incidents.
@highlight Demonstrating the accuracy sufficiency based on a real large scale power grid data.
