 The more electric aircraft concept aims to reduce emissions fuel costs and enable incorporation of electric weapon systems and advanced sensor platforms . These systems will further burden the electrical system due to the pulse like loading and require advanced control strategies and distributed energy storage systems to ensure stability . Furthermore multi physical coupling of thermal electrical systems are often compartmentalize and analyzed separately forgoing congruency that could occur if analyzed together . Here we study how exergy the amount of useful energy throughout a system can guide control design and system operation . A multi physics networked microgrid model was developed of an aircraft with two generation sources interconnecting power converters a lumped thermal mass model and pulsed loading . The Hamiltonian Surface Shaping Power Flow Control strategy is applied to the electrical grid via idealized and distributed storage elements . The HSSPFC was first developed to solve a general scalable form a networked microgrid architecture and then applied to the specific aircraft model . Implementation of the HSSPFC requires an outer loop to balance installed generation and to manage storage . This was accomplished through an exergy optimal set point generation scheme that minimized exergy destruction in the power converters . Bus regulation of within 3 of the desired set point was achieved while servicing a 100kW pulsed load . A tradeoff between optimization update rate and storage regulation was found to be limited by the algorithm execution speed . Increased optimization update rates were linked to reduced storage use and fewer transients in bus voltage . The thermal model was electrically coupled through pumping loads and by cooling the power electronics . Exergy optimal coolant pump operation was also studied . The minimal exergy and pump energy consumption were obtained by operating the coolant system near the upper temperature limit of the coolant which minimized cooling electrical loads .

@highlight An aircraft model was developed to study links between thermal and electrical loads.
@highlight A Hamiltonian based controller was developed for arbitrary microgrid configurations.
@highlight An exergy optimal control strategy was developed to minimize storage utilization.
@highlight Control update rate studied to explore its impact on storage use and bus regulation.
