 Introducing the concepts of distributed generation and microgrid are known as key points which lead the conventional distribution systems toward novel smart grids . Utilizing DG infrastructures would facilitate local supply of loads . Hence it is necessary to optimally distribute DG units all over the distribution network . MGs with ability of operating in the grid connected and islanded modes enhance the system performance . Obviously it is important to implement an appropriate procedure for optimal construction of MGs in a distribution system . This paper proposes optimized methods to allocate DG units and construct a set of MGs with the aim of improving system performance and consumer side properties . It is also taken into account that the generated power by DG units and the consumed power by loads are stochastic . The considered objective functions for optimal DG placement problem are decreasing system losses and improving voltage profile . On the other hand MG construction is carried out with the aim of maximizing system load factor and minimizing system load variance . In this paper an improved version of group search optimization algorithm named as dominated groups search optimization algorithm is proposed and implemented in order to solve mentioned optimization problems . The proposed DGSO algorithm facilitates the comprehensive search which results in achieving to better solutions . The related formulation optimization algorithms and simulation results are presented in this paper . Moreover the proposed strategy is evaluated in the PG E 69 bus distribution system and a custom meshed distribution network .

@highlight This paper proposes optimized methods to construct a set of MGs considering consumer side properties.
@highlight Optimal solutions are obtained by improving the load factor of constructed MGs and minimizing system load variance.
@highlight Optimal DG placement is considered to minimize system losses and to improve system voltage profile.
@highlight Optimal ES allocation is also taken into account besides the optimal MG construction problem.
@highlight A modified version of GSO algorithm named as dominated group search optimization DGSO algorithm is proposed and implemented in this paper.
