 Due to the uncertainty of distributed wind generations a better understanding of the probability distributions of their wind power forecast errors can help market participants who own DWGs perform better during trading . Under the premise of an accurate PD model considering the correlation among DWGs and absorbing the new information carried by the latest data are two ways to maintain an accurate PD . These two ways both require the historical and latest wind power and forecast data of all DWGs . Each MP however only has access to the data of its own DWGs and may refuse to share these data with MPs belonging to other stakeholders . Besides because of the endless generation of new data the PD updating burden increases sharply . Therefore a distributed strategy is used to avoid raw data collection . In addition the incremental learning strategy is further applied to reduce the updating burden . Finally a distributed incremental update scheme is proposed to make each MP continually acquire the latest conditional PD of its DWGs WPFE . Specifically the Gaussian mixture model based joint PD is first used to characterize the correlation among DWGs . Then a distributed modified incremental GMM algorithm is proposed to enable MPs to update the parameters of the joint PD in a distributed and incremental manner . After that a distributed derivation algorithm is further proposed to make MPs derive their conditional PD of WPFE from the joint one in a distributed way . Combining the two original algorithms the complete distributed incremental update scheme is finally achieved by which each MP can continually obtain its latest conditional PD of its DWGs WPFE via neighborhood communication and local calculation with its own data . The effectiveness correctness and efficiency of the proposed scheme are verified using the dataset from the NREL .

@highlight A distributed strategy to avoid collecting raw data from different parties.
@highlight An incremental learning algorithm for real time parameter estimation.
@highlight Continuous update for the probability distribution of wind power forecast error.
@highlight Correlation among distributed wind generations is considered.
