 Riparian ecosystems are shaped by interactions among streamflow plants and physical processes . Sustaining functioning riparian ecosystems in the face of climate change growing human demands for water and increasing water scarcity requires improved understanding of the sensitivity of riparian ecosystems to shifts in flow regimes and associated adaptive management strategies . We applied projected future flow regimes to an ecogeomorphic model of riparian and channel response to evaluate these interactions . We tested the hypothesis that components of the riparian ecosystem vary in their vulnerabilities to shifts in flow attributes and that changes in the representation of functional groups of plants result from interactions between ecological and physical drivers . Using the Yampa and Green Rivers in northwestern Colorado as our test system we investigated ecogeomorphic response to synthetic flow regimes representing continuous changes from baseline flows and future flow scenarios that incorporate changing climate demand and water resource projects . For this region we showed that riparian plant presence composition and cover are highly sensitive to the high flows that occur early in the growing season but that shifts to low flows are also important especially for determining the functional diversity of a riparian community . Future flow regimes are likely to induce vegetation encroachment on lower channel surfaces and to increase plant cover which will be dominated by fewer functional groups . In particular we predict a decrease in some mesic plants and an increase in presence and cover of late seral xeric shrubs most of which are non native species . Managing for high flows that occur early in the growing season must complement maintenance of adequate baseflows to maintain ecosystem functioning in the face of hydrologic alterations induced by climate change and human water demand .

@highlight We evaluated the impact of future flow regimes on semi arid riparian systems.
@highlight Using an ecogeomorphic model we identify plant attributes sensitive to flow shifts.
@highlight Riparian plants are more responsive to changes to high rather than low flows.
@highlight Likely changes to the flow regime will reduce functional plant diversity.
@highlight Water managers may use this understanding to balance human and ecological needs.
