 Contamination of soils with poly and perfluoroalkyl substances has become a challenging issue due to the adverse effects of these substances on both the environment and public health . PFAS have strong chemical structures and their bonding with soil makes them challenging to eliminate from soil environments . Traditional methods of soil remediation have not been successful in their reduction or removal from the environment . This paper provides a comprehensive evaluation of existing and emerging technologies for remediating PFAS contaminated soils with guidance on which approach to use in different contexts . The functions of all remediation technologies their suitability limitations and the scale applied from laboratory to the field are presented as a baseline for understanding the research need for treatment in soil environments . To date the immobilization method has been a significant part of the remediation solution for PFAS contaminated soils although its long term efficiency still needs further investigation . Soil washing and thermal treatment techniques have been tested at the field scale but they are expensive and energy intensive due to the use of a large volume of washing solvent and the high melting point of PFAS respectively both methods need a large initial investment for their installation . Other remediation technologies such as chemical oxidation ball milling and electron beams have been progressed in the laboratory . However additional research is needed to make them feasible cost effective and applicable in the field .

@highlight The remediation of soil contaminated with PFAS is extremely challenging.
@highlight Immobilization method is widely used in the treatment of PFAS contaminated soils.
@highlight PFAS immobilization methods need further study to assess their long term efficiency.
@highlight Soil washing needs further work to determine the efficacy of the washing solvents.
@highlight Several soil remediation methods have been tested effectively in lab trials.
