 Dredging is a globally important aquatic system management activity used for navigation improvement contamination removal aggregate production and or flood risk mitigation . Despite widespread application understanding of the environmental effects of some dredging types remains limited . Field campaigns in 2016 and 2017 in the River Parrett estuary UK therefore investigated the geomorphic and physicochemical effects of Water Injection Dredging a poorly studied hydrodynamic dredging technology . WID applied to restore channel capacity for the maintenance of flood water conveyance in the tidal River Parrett influenced surface elevations but not grain size characteristics of dredged bed sediments . Topographic alterations due to the 2016 WID operation were short lived lasting less than 10 months although benefits of the 2017 WID operation in terms of volumetric change outlasted the 12 month study period . Dredging had a significant impact on water physicochemistry when comparing pre and during dredging conditions within the dredge reach although time series analysis found dredging effects were comparable in magnitude to tidal effects for some parameters . WID is typically targeted at the thalweg and not the banks rendering the geomorphic signature of the method different to those of other often more invasive dredging technologies . Further thalweg not bankside dredging may have potential positive ecological implications particularly where the majority of biomass is located within the channel margins as in the tidal River Parrett . Collectively data suggest WID can be an effective method for sediment dispersal within tidal systems although regular application may be required to maintain cross sectional areas particularly where management precedes periods of low flows and or high rates of sediment accumulation . In future more work is required to better understand both the physical and ecological implications of WID as a flood risk management tool in estuaries and rivers .

@highlight WID can be an effective method for sediment dispersal within tidal systems.
@highlight WID effects on channel topography can be short lived lasting less than 10 months.
@highlight WID targets the thalweg with potential positive implications for marginal habitats.
@highlight WID did not influence bed sediment grain size distributions.
@highlight WID had a significant impact on water physicochemistry pH DO TTS turbidity .
