 Numerous studies have documented that invertebrate pollinator services are critical to the world economy . Factors including habitat loss and agricultural practices however threaten pollinator populations . Many counties in the Southern High Plains were identified as at risk for a shortage of pollination service from wild bees . This region also has one of the highest concentrations of Conservation Reserve Program contracts in the US . The CRP is the largest voluntary private lands conservation program in the US and was targeted as a program to improve pollinator habitat . Our objective was to determine how the predominant land uses in the SHP affect pollinator abundance and species richness and more specifically if the CRP can provide quality habitat for pollinators . We also examined how the keystone habitat playa wetlands embedded within these land uses contribute to pollinator habitat . We used blue vane traps placed in playa basins and adjacent uplands to determine Hymenoptera abundance and richness from April to October in 2013 and 2014 . The CRP had lower abundance than cropland and native grassland and generally less richness . Uplands and playa wetlands had little difference in Hymenoptera abundance and richness . Patch size negatively influenced abundance but had a positive influence on richness . The interaction of vegetation height and percent bare ground positively influenced abundance in cropland and native grasslands and positively influenced richness in all land uses . In the CRP vegetation height negatively influenced Hymenoptera abundance and percent bare ground had a positive influence . The years sampled in this study were during a severe extended drought therefore these results may be reflective of poor floral resources . The CRP has potential to create valuable habitat for pollinators if land managers incorporate a diversity of native grasses and native forbs into plantings to enhance pollinator foraging and nesting habitat .

@highlight CRP had lower Hymenoptera abundance than native grasslands and cropland and generally less richness.
@highlight Patch size was negatively associated with Hymenoptera abundance and positively influenced richness.
@highlight Vegetation height and bare ground cover positively influenced Hymenoptera abundance in cropland and native grassland and richness in all land uses.
@highlight In CRP vegetation height negatively influenced and percent bare ground positively influenced Hymenoptera abundance.
