 Due to the lenient environmental policies in developing economies mercury containing wastes are partly produced as a result of the employment of mercury in manufacturing and consumer products . Worldwide the presence of mercury as an impurity in several industrial processes leads to significant amounts of contaminated waste . The Minamata Convention on Mercury dictates that mercury containing wastes should be handled in an environmentally sound way according to the Basel Convention Technical Guidelines . Nevertheless the management policies differ a great deal from one country to another because only a few deploy or can afford to deploy the required technology and facilities . In general elemental mercury and mercury bearing wastes should be stabilized and solidified before they are disposed of or permanently stored in specially engineered landfills and facilities respectively . Prior to physicochemical treatment and depending on mercury s concentration the contaminated waste may be thermally or chemically processed to reduce mercury s content to an acceptable level . The suitability of the treated waste for final disposal is then assessed by the application of standard leaching tests whose capacity to evaluate its long term behavior is rather questionable . This review critically discusses the main methods employed for the recovery of mercury and the treatment of contaminated waste by analyzing representative examples from the industry . Furthermore it gives a complete overview of all relevant issues by presenting the sources of mercury bearing wastes explaining the problems associated with the operation of conventional discharging facilities and providing an insight of the disposal policies adopted in selected geographical regions .

@highlight Mercury consumption is in decline with the exception of ASGM.
@highlight Vacuum distillation has been established commercially for mercury recovery.
@highlight Stabilization usually involves converting Hg
@highlight to the less active HgS.
@highlight Solidification immobilizes mercury waste within impermeable matrices.
@highlight Standard leaching tests may not be appropriate for the assessment of treated waste.
