 Naphthalene sulfonate formaldehyde condensatation is the main component of the naphthalene based water reducers for cement based materials as well as an organic substance with potential toxicity . However it is still uncertain whether it can leak from the cement based materials . In this work the leakage ratio and adsorption behavior of NSF from various cement based materials such as the different water cement ratio NSF content types of cementitious materials as well as at different hydration time were evaluated . The product components of the cement based materials cured for different times were also quantified to explore the mechanisms which are responsible for the leakage and adsorption behaviors . The results indicate that more NSF lower w c ratio and less mineral admixture decrease the NSF leakage ratio . The leakage ratio of NSF from cement paste mixed 0.3 NSF is up to 50.8 at 0.5h and it decreases to 31.0 at 28d . The leakage ratio of NSF from cement paste decreases as the hydration time prolongs . The lower leakage ratio corresponds to the higher adsorption capacity . Less adsorption capacity and thinner adsorption film imply that lower temperature and mineral admixture decrease the NSF adsorption behavior . When 0.3 NSF is added into the cement paste the adsorption amount and NSF layer thickness are 5.53mg g and 0.98nm 5.87mg g and 4.7nm at 0.5h and 28d respectively . The result demonstrates that the adsorption behavior of NSF in cement significantly increases at the initial several hours and gradually stabilizes after the first day . The X ray powder diffractometer results show that the contents of tricalcium silicate C

@highlight More NSF lower w c ratio and less admixture decrease the NSF leakage ratio.
@highlight NSF leakage ratio is up to 50.8 at 0.5h and it decreases to 31.0 at 28d
@highlight Adsorption amount and thickness are 5.53mg g and 0.98nmat 0.5h respectively.
@highlight Adsorption amount and thickness are 5.87mg g and 4.7nmat 28d
@highlight NSF leakage behavior is closely related to hydration time and products.
