 The Total Maximum Daily Load program established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency to improve America s water quality is being applied to the Chesapeake Bay watershed to mitigate the dead zone problem . Agricultural activities are the major nonpoint source of nitrogen contributing 44 of total N to the Bay . Best Management Practices are recognized as an effective way to mitigate N loss of agricultural activities . However because of physical and economic heterogeneity in agricultural regions targeting BMPs to areas that produce disproportionate nutrient losses has the potential to reduce the costs of achieving water quality goals . The purpose of this study is to examine the potential to reduce costs of meeting a regional water quality goal by targeting N load reductions within and across counties . Based on TMDL developed by the US EPA in 2010 for the Chesapeake Bay watershed the N reduction goal is 35 for Pennsylvania by 2025 . We examine the effects of targeting the required reductions within counties across counties and both within and across counties for the Susquehanna watershed . Using the uniform strategy to meet 35 N reduction as the baseline results show that costs of achieving a regional 35 N reduction goal can be reduced by 13 31 and 36 with cross county targeting within county targeting and within and across county targeting respectively . Cost effectiveness of government subsidy programs for water quality improvement in agriculture can be increased by targeting them to areas with lower N abatement costs .

@highlight Soil and Water Assessment Tool Variable Source Area is used to estimate crop yields and N loadings in Susquehanna Watershed.
@highlight Marginal N abatement cost is the criterion of cross county targeting.
@highlight Cross county targeting achieves the regional N reduction goal more cost effectively than uniform reductions across counties.
@highlight Within county targeting reduces costs of achieving the N reduction goal by more than cross county targeting.
@highlight Government subsidies for water quality improvements should be prioritized to regions with lower marginal N abatement costs.
