 The planetary boundaries represent a well known concept which helps identify whether production and consumption systems are environmentally sustainable in absolute terms namely compared to the Earth s ecological limits and carrying capacity . In this study the impacts of production and consumption of the European Union in 2010 were assessed by means of life cycle assessment based indicators and compared with the PBs . Five different perspectives were adopted for assessing the impacts a production perspective and four distinct consumption perspectives resulting from alternative modelling approaches including both top down and bottom up . Life cycle impact assessment results were assessed against LCIA based PBs which adapted the PBs framework to the LCIA indicators and metrics of the Environmental Footprint method . Global environmental impacts transgressed several LCIA based PBs . When assessing the overall environmental impacts of EU consumption compared to the global LCIA based PBs impacts of EU consumption related to climate change particulate matter land use and mineral resources were close or already transgressed the global boundaries . The EU with less than 10 of the world population was close to transgress the global ecological limits . Moreover when downscaling the global PBs and comparing the impacts per capita for an average EU citizen and a global one the LCIA PBs were significantly transgressed in many impact categories . The results are affected by uncertainty mainly due to the intrinsic uncertainties of the different LCA modelling approaches and indicators the uncertainties in estimating LCIA based PBs due to the difficulties in identifying limits for the Earth s processes and referring them to LCIA metrics . The results may anyway be used to define benchmarks and policy targets to ensure that consumption and production in Europe remains within safe ecological boundaries as well as to understand the magnitude of the effort needed to reduce the impacts .

@highlight Planetary Boundaries help quantify the environmental sustainability of consumption.
@highlight We developed LCIA based planetary boundaries for evaluating the EU consumption.
@highlight EU consumption occupies a high share of the safe operating space globally available.
@highlight Planetary boundaries are fundamental to support policy making towards sustainability.
@highlight LCA based planetary boundaries show intrinsic uncertainties.
