 The open disposal of groundwater treated soil containing arsenic and iron is a critical environmental issue in developing countries like Bangladesh . The current study attempts to use the arsenic iron soil as partial replacement of aggregate for preparing the sustainable solid mortar composite . Four dosages of AIS were applied as the substitution of fine aggregate for finding the optimum quantity of AIS justifying by strength and nominal leaching content of As and Fe in pH solution 4.0 and 7.0 and curing temperatures of 25 30 and 35C . Also the external surfaces of solidified matrices were modified with cement grouting solution and cement plaster to resist the migration of concerned contaminants to curing media . The analytical compressive and flexural strength results showed that the solid mortars blended with 2.5 and 5 AIS obtained over 80 of the control specimens throughout the testing ages . Moreover the study found that 5 AIS bearing hardened composition with exterior cement plaster exhibited the releasing contents of As and Fe below the drinking water standard in both pH solutions and adopted three curing temperatures which is safe as well as economical to use as a construction material . The scanning electron microscopy observations and energy dispersive spectroscopy analysis also demonstrated the encapsulation patterns of target contaminants by forming hard microstructures of calcium silicate hydrate ettringite and calcium arsenic compounds . The outcomes of the study showed the potentiality of recycling the contaminated groundwater treatment soil as building materials in an eco friendly way .

@highlight Arsenic iron bearing groundwater treatment soil was used in mortar block.
@highlight External surfaces of mortar blocks were modified to encapsulate the metals.
@highlight Mortars covered with cement plaster exhibited the safe leachate contents to dispose.
@highlight Leaching parameters showed the block containing 5 soil with CP as sustainable.
@highlight SEM and EDS results proved the presence of arsenic compound alongwith CSH structure.
