 Despite an ongoing dire prognosis of the state of water resources water practitioners maintain their traditional approaches to water planning . Alternative water projects to those that are considered business as usual are not contemplated despite the threats posed by increasing urbanisation and climate change . Previous studies in psychological perceptions of risk in other fields have found that the personal feelings of risk practitioners particularly feelings of dread have had a significant impact on risk perceptions an element known to be affecting decision making of an individual . Could a similar trend exist in the water sector We consider the decision making process of 77 water practitioners in Melbourne Australia to determine their personal biases and attitudes towards these alternative water pathways . In particular this study assesses the impact of cognitive bias on reported risk scores in the water sector . Utilising pre validated risk psychology survey methodology psychometric testing was conducted to determine the influences that guide their personal risk perceptions and in turn their decision making processes . It was concluded that Dread plays a key role in the variation of risk scores between the participants that were evaluated . Furthermore variables such as Fear of the Unknown and Dread related to perceived fatal risk where also found to be statistically significant factors in the link between risk scores and cognitive bias . These findings are critical in water planning as a feeling of dread may be driving up risk scores thus reducing the chances of establishing alternative water projects .

@highlight Psychological bias occurs in the risk assessments of water projects.
@highlight Dread was found to be an important psychological factor increasing risk scores for unfamiliar and new water projects.
@highlight Higher risk scores result in water projects not being pursued.
@highlight Personal affect of water practitioners changes investment outcomes in the options analysis of water projects.
