 Potentially toxic elements present in abandoned mining wastes are of great concern because of potential risks to human health and ecosystems . Indices of contamination applied to mining wastes are calculated using the total concentration of PTEs and comparing them with regional geochemical backgrounds . However determining the total content of heavy metals is insufficient to assess the hazard of mining wastes . Therefore in addition to total concentration the potential risk is also evaluated through water mobility of elements . Accordingly leaching procedures are useful tools for the geochemical characterization of soluble constituents that are mobilized . In this study the solubility of PTEs from different types of mining wastes is comparatively assessed using three standard leaching methods . The Hazard Average Quotient was calculated to assess the potential Toxicity Factor . TF is an indicator of the relative potential toxicity of wastes and is the basis for the classification of AMW . A comparative assessment provides evidence that there are no statistically significant differences in PTEs solubility by the three leaching methods and it was also found that the pH of the eluates was dictated by the type of waste . Results suggest that the IC gives an indicator of the potential contamination of soils and sediments by erosive processes or a long term measure whereas TF assesses the possibility of contaminating water in the short term . The most significant finding is the new ranking scale of TF as a function of HAQ applied to the Mexican standard leaching test . This factor together with other considerations relating to risk generating processes might then be applied in places having large amounts of recorded AMW such as the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America where effective management is required to rank sites based on preliminary environmental and human risk assessment .

@highlight Leaching tests assessed do not show significant differences in trace metals solubility.
@highlight The type of mining wastes dictates the pH of the eluates.
@highlight Toxicity Factor is an indicator of the relative potential toxicity of wastes.
@highlight Toxicity Factor assesses the possibility of contaminating water in the short term.
