 The municipal solid waste landfills experience a large post closure settlement over time . Waste settlement significantly impairs utilities structures and the other facilities constructed on top of a landfill . This study presents the settlement mechanisms and the methods of estimating MSW landfill settlements . Since the waste materials exhibit engineering properties which vary depending on many factors such as the location time climate this study also presents the data related to the landfill characteristics waste composition waste moisture content and other physical and chemical properties of waste . In addition this paper discusses the findings of a settlement investigation conducted at a municipal solid waste landfill in Tehran . In this research based on the collected field data and data obtained from the available literature a technical management tool for MSW closed landfills has been developed using MATLAB which aims to predict time dependent settlement under self weight and surcharge loads in landfills considering various related parameters leachate gas generation and moisture distribution coefficients of compression whilst it calculates different properties of wastes and determines the landfill slope stability under various conditions . This user friendly program captures the variation of the model parameters with time . The results of the verification process indicate that the results from the technical management tool have been in a very good agreement with the measured field settlement data collected from Tehran landfill .

@highlight Variation of waste and landfill parameters lead to different settlement behaviour.
@highlight Understanding the long term settlement process is crucial for landfill redevelopment.
@highlight Landfill modelling demonstrates the settlement process and influential parameters.
@highlight Field settlement data collection is essential for model verification.
@highlight Landfill height and compressibility characters significantly affect the overall landfill settlement.
