 Assessing management effectiveness in protected areas is a fundamental instrument to achieve socio biodiversity protection goals . This study aimed to analyze the management effectiveness of Cunhambebe State Park in the State of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil from the perception of stakeholders and the multi temporal analysis of land use and land cover between 1998 and 2018 . We used the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management method for a participatory approach . Seventy two indicators were used and applied to assess the perception of stakeholders related to the Advisory Council . The management effectiveness of PEC was classified as moderately satisfactory . Indicators of Legal security Vulnerability Site design and planning and Financial resources revealed the weaknesses and threats of management and what should be the priority projects for better effectiveness . Through the multi temporal analysis we identified that the advances of pasture and urban areas are the highest pressures and threats as perceived by stakeholders . In our case study we provide evidence of actions that must be performed by the PEC management team . These actions must consider the weaknesses and threats presented by the SWOT analysis . Finally we recommend some political and management measures 1 Financial resources for the land regularization of areas overlapping with PEC 2 Guidelines about PEC areas must be included in the Master Plans of municipalities that cover PEC limits 3 Technical assistance to improve land management and 4 Strengthen environmental education initiatives at all school levels .

@highlight Stakeholders perception potentially influences the management effectiveness of protected areas.
@highlight Multidisciplinary approach helps in the assessment of socio biodiversity protection.
@highlight Participatory workshop allows a more authentic analysis of management effectiveness.
@highlight Mapping of land use enables the understanding of conservation planning conflicts.
