 Traditional water sources are increasingly coming under pressure from urbanization population and industrial growth as well as climate variability and alternatives such as desalinated and recycled water will need to be considered in the future . However available data indicate that consumers are apprehensive about these alternative water sources with many reactions centered on disgust . It is not clear though whether trait or state disgust is responsible for these disgust reactions . Secondly the associations the public has with desalinated and recycled water are not well described even though knowledge of these associations would provide the holistic understanding required for addressing perceptions . Using respondents from Australia and South Africa therefore this study investigated the associations people have with recycled and desalinated water as well as the influence of affect institutional trust cultural religious beliefs water scarcity and demographic variables on willingness to use these waters . The results show that whereas recycled water is associated with negative affect from notions of disgust desalinated water is often thought of in terms of minerals or as simply water . We also found that affect was the most significant predictor and that state disgust as well as trait disgust influenced WTU . Together these data suggest that disgust related rejection of is likely due to the disgust elicited by the waters rather than disgust proneness of individuals . It is plausible therefore that efforts to induce positive affect through making salient positive associations e.g . NEWater in Singapore may increase WTU .

@highlight Recycled water is mostly associated with disgust and contamination.
@highlight In contrast desalinated water is associated with minerals and seen as simply water.
@highlight State disgust is a more significant predictor of willingness to use WTU than trait disgust.
@highlight Affect is the most significant predictor of WTU recycled desalinated water.
@highlight This suggests increasing positive affect may increase WTU.
