 Hydropower plants are commonly reported as a major cause of the worldwide decline of freshwater eels so that management solutions are urgently needed to mitigate their impacts . Where downstream passage solutions are complex to develop turbine shutdown appears as an effective management solution to protect silver eels during their river migration toward spawning areas . However the definition of operational decision rules for turbine shutdown is challenging due to the duality between the benefit for eel conservation and the concomitant cost in term of hydropower production . Here we proposed a decision framework for turbine shutdown based on simple hydrological criteria to guide negotiations between stakeholders toward a trade off between silver eel escapement and hydropower generation . Eel migration was assumed to be triggered by a minimum river flow associated with a minimum discharge pulse so that threshold values can be directly implemented as decision rules for turbine shutdown . To estimate relevant thresholds a generic methodological framework was developed to generate alternative decision rules from data collected at hydropower plants which can include telemetry surveys and estimates of eel abundance . A multiple criteria decision analysis was then conducted to rank alternatives and to determine the best compromise between promoting silver eel escapement and limiting turbine shutdown duration . Graphic outputs can help stakeholders to understand the competitive interests between eel conservation and hydropower production while visually identifying a range of consensual alternatives to support negotiations in the choice of operational thresholds . The method was illustrated for three river systems in Europe featured by distinct hydrological conditions and can be applied in other areas providing that eel monitoring surveys and flow data are available .

@highlight Turbine shutdown can reduce silver eels mortalities when crossing hydropower plants.
@highlight A trade off between silver eel conservation and hydropower production is required.
@highlight Stakeholders need simple decision rules to maximise eel escapement.
@highlight Compromise alternatives are identified with multiple criteria decision analysis.
@highlight Outputs provide quantitative elements to guide negotiations between stakeholders.
