 This study evaluates the applicability of using long term satellite rainfall estimate precipitation products in drought monitoring over mainland China under global warming conditions . Two widely used drought indices the self calibrating Palmer Drought Severity Index and the Standardized Precipitation Evapotranspiration Index were selected as study cases both indices consider global warming but based on different mechanisms . Two popular long term SREs were selected to calculate the indices the Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using the Artificial Neural Networks Climate Data Record and the Climate Hazards Group Infrared Precipitation with Stations . A ground based gridded observation dataset known as the China monthly Precipitation Analysis Product was used as a reference for the evaluation . Research results showed that on a grid cell scale the SPEI based on both SREs was consistent with observations in eastern China while the scPDSI was much less accurate and its accuracy patterns were highly spatially heterogeneous . However on a regional scale after spatial errors were offset by spatial averaging the performance of the SRE based scPDSI improved and it showed the same ability as the SPEI in temporally detecting the timing intensity and magnitude of drought . The self calibrating procedure of the scPDSI was determined as the most probable cause of its poorer performance and high heterogeneity which would increase instability and enlarge the uncertainty of the SREs . It is thus considered that the SPEI should be the first choice for use in monitoring global warming related drought primarily because of the high uncertainty and instability of the scPDSI .

@highlight Applicability of satellite precipitation data for scPDSI and SPEI was evaluated.
@highlight SRE based scPDSI showed worse performance than the SPEI at gridcell scale.
@highlight Both scPDSI and SPEI of SREs performed well in detecting droughts at a regional scale.
@highlight SPEI is more recommended for the SREs due to the high instability of the scPDSI.
