 Since 2010 over 2.4 billion in public funds have been invested in the cleanup and restoration of the Great Lakes Basin through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative . Efforts have targeted restoration of Areas of Concern and other degraded sites . While the ecological benefits of Great Lakes restoration have been highlighted by the Environmental Protection Agency and the economic benefits studied by the binational International Joint Commission public preferences for Great Lakes conservation and restoration have not been well studied . Using best worst scaling and a seven preference choice set 1 215 Basin residents quantitatively ranked their preferred reasons to restore and conserve Great Lakes shorelines and waterways with a focus on restoration at Areas of Concern and National Park Service sites . The analysis shows the most preferred reason for restoration and conservation is to promote human health followed by the protection of native species and the prevention of new invasive species from entering the Great Lakes . The least preferred reason for restoration and conservation is to improve local property values . Although respondents top reason was human centered respondents preferred ecosystem conservation over the benefits of economic revitalization recreational use and improved property values . Preferences analyzed by gender income and home location followed these same rankings . Preferences for habitat restoration and the prevention of invasive species align with the focus areas guiding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative providing evidence of public support for this expansive publicly funded restoration effort .

@highlight Preferences for restoration of Great Lakes waterways using best worst scaling are assessed.
@highlight Human health is the most preferred reason to restore improved property values is least preferred.
@highlight Invasive species control is more important at Great Lakes National Parks than at Areas of Concern.
@highlight Rural residents top preference is the enhancement of native species.
@highlight Preferences support the foci guiding the 2 billion spent on restoration of the Great Lakes.
