 Stream restoration efforts have increased but the success rate is still rather low . The underlying reasons for these unsuccessful restoration efforts remain inconclusive and need urgent clarification . Therefore the aim of the present study was to evaluate over 40 years of stream restoration to fuel future perspectives . To this purpose we evaluated the influence of policy goals on stream restoration efforts biophysical restoration objectives restoration measures applied including the scale of application and monitoring efforts . Information was obtained from five stream restoration surveys that were held among the regional water authorities in the Netherlands over the last 40 years and from an analysis of the international scientific publications on stream restoration spanning the same time period . Our study showed that there was a considerable increase in stream restoration efforts especially motivated by environmental legislation . However proper monitoring of the effectiveness of the measures was often lacking . Furthermore a mismatch between restoration goals and restoration measures was observed . Measures are still mainly focused on hydromorphological techniques while biological goals remain underexposed and therefore need to be better targeted . Moreover restoration practices occur mainly on small scales despite the widely recognized relevance of tackling multiple stressors acting over large scales for stream ecosystem recovery . In order to increase the success rate of restoration projects it is recommended to improve the design of the accompanying monitoring programmes allowing to evaluate over longer time periods if the measures taken led to the desired results . Secondly we advise to diagnose the dominant stressors and plan restoration measures at the appropriate scale of these stressors generally the catchment scale .

@highlight Legislation motivated the increase in stream restoration efforts.
@highlight A mismatch between restoration goals and measures was observed.
@highlight Proper stream restoration monitoring delays acceleration is recommended.
@highlight Large scale processes need much more attention in restoration.
