 The social ecological system of the Lake Manyara basin a UNESCO Biosphere reserve suffers from social economic and environmental problems due to decreasing water levels erosion and land and water use conflicts . We propose an integrated assessment of the social ecological interactions of the area to support future sustainable management . Within the Drivers Pressures State Impact Response framework an integrated literature review and several methods of knowledge collection were combined to identify future management priorities and challenges . During focus groups with farmers and pastoralists stakeholders confirmed the role played by land use changes as driver and pressure in the landscape e.g . through increased erosion rates and siltation of the lake . Moreover economic and social issues were identified as prominent factors being influenced by or influencing these processes . These statements match the scientific literature . During participatory mapping exercises different spatial and resource allocation perceptions appeared amongst pastoralists and farmers . The multidisciplinary approach proved to be useful to acquire an integrated and comprehensive understanding of the state challenges and opportunities of Lake Manyara BR to feed into a decision support system in service of an integrated management plan . Our assessment suggests that improved water governance in a multi actor approach should be a priority for future integrated management strategies . Also awareness raising amongst decision makers scientists and local communities is needed to demonstrate the advantages of an integrated approach . And finally visible and fair mechanisms to share conservation revenues should be designed in a way that local benefits can be obtained together with incentive mechanisms for co management and conservation .

@highlight Lake Manyara basin faces socio economic and environmental challenges.
@highlight A mixed method approach involving a multidisciplinary stakeholders engagement identified challenges and solutions.
@highlight Challenges are decreasing water levels erosion and land and water use conflicts.
@highlight Visible and fair mechanisms to share conservation revenues should be designed and implemented.
@highlight Incentive mechanisms for co management and conservation are needed.
