 Following the Belt and Road initiative China has significantly increased its outward direct investment . Although these investments help to boost these countries productivity their impacts on the environment are still controversial and deserve careful investigation . This study for the first time examines whether China s ODI has improved the green total factor productivity a comprehensive index for environmental quality and productivity . Moreover a new data set composed of ICRG World Bank WDI Heritage Foundation and Wind databases is used to match the panel data of 46B R countries for the period of 20032016 . A newly developed dynamic threshold panel model with GMM characteristics is utilized to explore the possible nonlinear relationship with full consideration of heterogeneity . The empirical results indicate that there is no pollution shelter effect on China s ODI . With the increase in China s ODI the GTFP of the B R countries has been significantly improved . Additionally China s ODI has a greater role in promoting GTFP in B R countries with higher institutional quality . The positive effects of China s ODI on the GTFP of B R countries depend on the institutional qualities of the countries and the enhancement effect becomes greater when the countries have better institutions . There is also evidence that China s ODI significantly promoted the GTFP of countries in the East Asia and Pacific region South Asia Central Asia and Europe while China s ODI did not significantly promote the GTFP of countries in the Middle East and North Africa .

@highlight The green total factor productivity GTFP of the Belt and Road B R countries is estimated.
@highlight The influence of China s outward direct investment on GTFP of B R countries is investigated.
@highlight A dynamic threshold panel model that addresses potential endogeneity is employed.
@highlight China s outward direct investment does not have a pollution shelter effect.
@highlight The positive effect of investment on GTFP is further enhanced as the institutional quality improves.
