 Abundant studies have been made around the impact of environmental management on economic performance in business but there is still no consistent conclusion . This study focuses on labor productivity as a measure of economic performance . We argue that environmental management has a negative impact on the labor productivity of company in the special context of Chinese increasingly stringent environmental regulations but this impact is moderated by quality management . Environmental management score and the years that companies have passed ISO 9001 are set as proxies for independent and moderating variable respectively . A sample including 229 Chinese listed companies is used to test the hypotheses by multiple regression analysis . Results show that environmental management has a negative impact on labor productivity and quality management moderates the relationship .

@highlight We examine the impact of company environmental management on labor productivity under the increasingly stringent environmental regulation in China. As U.S. President Donald Trump announced that America would be withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement China the world s second largest economy entity will undertake heavier responsibilities in the global environmental improvement. At the same time China is also the world s largest transitional entity. Therefore studying environmental management issues in conjunction with Chinese background will contribute to global sustainable development.
@highlight Although ISO14001 certification is often used in extant research to measure environmental management another proxy variable is adopted considering the Chinese context. Environmental management started late in China and many companies did not have ISO14001 certification. The environmental responsibility score provides a more extensive and comprehensive evaluation of the company s efforts in environmental management.
@highlight We consider the moderating role of quality management in the analysis of the relationship between environmental management and labor productivity. The study concludes that the high level of quality management foundation can restrain the troubles caused by environmental management to companies thus can improve labor productivity. This conclusion helps to explain the heterogeneity of environmental management effects and to provide confidence for company managers.
