 As a response to increasing urbanization and changing weather and climatic patterns urban green infrastructure emerged as a concept to increase resilience within the urban boundaries . Given that implementing these natural solutions in practice requires a clear overview of the costs and benefits valuation becomes ever important . A range of decision support tools for green infrastructure and ecosystem services exist developed for various purposes . This paper reviews the potential of 10 shortlisted and existing valuation tools to support investment decisions of urban green infrastructure . In the assessment the functionality is regarded specifically from the urban planning and decision making viewpoint . The toolkits were evaluated on 12 different criteria . After analyzing the toolkits on these criteria the findings are evaluated on the match with specific requirements in the urban planning and management context . Secondly recommendations and guidelines are formulated to support the design of simple valuation tools tailored to support the development of green infrastructure in urban areas . Approaching the valuation toolkits biophysically and economically provides an integral overview of the challenges and opportunities of the capacities of each framework . It was found that most tools are not designed for the peculiarities of the urban context . Several elements contribute to the hampering uptake of GI valuation tools . Firstly the limited effort in the economic case for green infrastructure remains a burden to use toolkits to compare grey and green alternatives . Secondly tools are currently seldom designed for the peculiarities of cities urban ecosystem services multi scalability life span assessments of co benefits and the importance of social benefits . Thirdly toolkits should be the result of co development between the scientific community and local authorities in order to create toolkits that are tailor made to the specific needs in the urban planning process . It can be concluded that current tools are not readily applicable to support decision making as such . However if applied cautiously they can have an indicative role to pinpoint further targeted and in depth analyses .

@highlight Applicability of green infrastructure tools in urban planning was assessed.
@highlight Toolkits don t succeed in comprehensively assessing urban green infrastructure.
@highlight Lack of life span assessments in tools impedes on credible economic case for UGI.
@highlight Currently toolkits and their use are not aligned with needs of their potential users.
