 China is facing serious heavy metal pollution in farmland soil which is a major pressing concern for food safety and human health . This research delivers an integrated methodology for pollution source apportionment and a soil rice human model to predict heavy metal transfer in the farmland soil rice grain and human blood chain . The source identification integrated positive matrix factorization cluster analysis and the life cycle assessment survey of agricultural and industrial production and consumption . Based on the case analysis of Shaoxing this method showed very good performance through the illustration of the source contributions by PMF and LCA at county level and the identification of the pollution sources using CA and LCA at field scale . According to the overall evaluation the integrated method was superior for the farmland metals pollution source identification comparing to existing source apportionment methods . To predict metal transformation in soil rice human chain a set of models of metals accumulation ability in rice grain and human blood has been established by literature review and monitoring data . The models showed adequate predictability for the metal content of rice grains at both the field and regional scale and plausible simulation of the metal concentration in human blood throughout the whole study region . Therefore this study provides valuable tools for farmland soil heavy metal pollution source identification and for the prediction of heavy metal transformation in soil rice human chain and it can highlight the need to take mitigating action to reduce farmland metal pollution risks in specific regions .

@highlight A set of valuable tools provide for metal source analysis metal transfer prediction.
@highlight To identify metal sources a method integrated PMF CA LCA showed good performance.
@highlight The developed soil rice human model showed good simulation to predict metal transfer.
@highlight It can highlight the need to take mitigating action for farmland metal pollution.
