 As the running time of reservoirs is increasing a large number of reservoirs are becoming eutrophicated . Organic phosphorus is a key factor in eutrophication . However the mechanism and extent to which organic matter degradation affects P recycling in water column of large deep reservoirs are unclear especially for the newly built ones . In this study different forms of carbon and P in the water column of Hongjiadu Reservoir were investigated . The contents of particulate organic carbon and particulate organic phosphorus both decreased with depth in summer indicating that organic matter was degraded during the deposition of particulates . In contrast the contents of POC and POP varied slightly with depth in winter . This difference may result from the double thermal stratification and the corresponding double oxygen stratification in summer . The POC POP ratios were lower in the epilimnion and increased with depth suggesting that P was preferentially regenerated relative to C during organic matter degradation . The contents of particulate inorganic phosphorus and POP were significantly negatively correlated indicating that POP transformed into PIP in deeper water . The double thermoclines and oxyclines in Hongjiadu Reservoir lead to very low dissolved oxygen concentrations in the hypolimnion which should receive sufficient attention . If water becomes hypoxic enhanced P release during organic matter degradation will promote phytoplankton growth leading to higher phytoplankton biomass and more severe DO depletion . Thus a positive feedback loop may form among hypoxia enhanced P release higher primary productivity and more severe hypoxia accelerating P recycling in large deep reservoirs . Once if eutrophication occurs in these reservoirs it will be very difficult to restore the water ecosystem . Thus it is particularly important to prevent the occurrence of eutrophication and the formation of positive feedback loop as early as possible . This highlights the importance of both reducing external loading and improving DO level in large deep reservoirs .

@highlight Double thermoclines and oxyclines both occur in Hongjiadu Reservoir in summer.
@highlight The double thermoclines seriously impede the oxygen supply to the bottom water.
@highlight Particulate organic matter POM decomposes during particulates deposition in summer.
@highlight Phosphorus P is preferentially regenerated relative to carbon in POM degradation.
@highlight The regenerated P would resupply the primary production in the large deep reservoir.
