 An urban agglomeration is a highly connected city group which is nested in complex trading networks . Ignoring the intercity connections and regional inequality may lead to the unsustainability of the urban agglomeration . The misuse and overuse of cultivated land resources are threatening environmental sustainability and causing global climate change . Facing the inequality and environment pressures in the urban agglomeration the cultivated land resource reallocation within the complex urban agglomeration trading network should be systematically explored . This study analyzes the virtual cultivated land flows of the Jing Jin Ji region embodied in China s interregional trade network using a multiregional input output model . Results show that the average virtual cultivated land intensity of the JJJ region is 1.59ha million yuan which is below the national average . The JJJ region has 10.74 million ha of embodied cultivated land in consumption accounting for 7.82 of the country s total amount . JJJ region is an import oriented region and it receives virtual cultivated land from surrounding underdeveloped regions such as Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia . Beijing and Tianjin are typical net importers of virtual cultivated land while Zhangjiakou Xingtai Hengshui Baoding and Cangzhou are net exporters in the interior of the JJJ region . This study could provide a systematical perspective and data supporting system for formulating the sustainable cultivated land use policies and collaborated development policies in the JJJ region to mitigate regional inequality . Policy suggestions concerning the eco compensation mechanism collaborative innovation mode and uniform management platform in JJJ are given .

@highlight Internal and external regional virtual cultivated land flows of JJJ are analyzed.
@highlight The virtual cultivated land intensity of JJJ is below the national average.
@highlight JJJ has 10.74 million ha of ELC accounting for 7.82 of the country s ELC.
@highlight JJJ is a net importer of virtual cultivated land with a value of 8.33 milllion ha.
@highlight Ecological compensation mechanism is needed for sustainable cultivated land use.
