 Heavy metal pollution because of its high toxicity non biodegradability and biological enrichment has been identified as a global aquatic ecosystems threat in recent decades . Due to the high efficiency low cost satisfactory recyclability easy storage and separation biosorbents have exhibited a promising prospect for heavy metals treatment in aqueous phase . This article comprehensively summarized different types of biosorbents derived from available low cost raw materials such as agricultural and forestry wastes . The raw materials obtained are treated with conventional pretreatment or novel methods which can greatly enhance the adsorption performance of the biosorbents . The suitable immobilization methods can not only further enhance the adsorption performance of the biosorbents but also facilitate the process of separating the biosorbents from the wastewater . In addition once biosorbents are put into large scale use the final disposal problems can not be avoided . Therefore it is necessary to review the currently accepted final disposal methods of biosorbents . Moreover through the analysis of the adsorption and desorption mechanisms of biosorbents it is not only beneficial to find the better methods to improve the adsorption performance of the biosorbents but also better to explain the influencing factors of adsorption effect for biosorbents . Especially different from many researches focused on biosorbents this work highlighted the combination of biosorbents with catalytic technologies which provided new ideas for the follow up research direction of biosorbents . Finally the purpose of this paper is to inject new impetus into the future development of biosorbents .

@highlight The novel methods to improve adsorption performance was introduced.
@highlight New structures were introduced or formed in biosorbents.
@highlight The final disposal methods of biosorbents were summarized.
@highlight The combination of biosorbents and catalytic technologies was highlighted.
@highlight New impetus were injected into the development of biosorbents.
