 Global expansion of hydropower resources has increased in recent years to meet growing energy demands and fill worldwide gaps in electricity supply . However hydropower induces significant environmental impacts on river ecosystems impacts that are addressed through environmental impact assessment processes . The need for effective EIA processes is increasing as environmental regulations are either stressed in developing countries undertaking rapid expansion of hydropower capacity or time and resource intensive in developed countries . Part of the challenge in implementing EIAs lies in reaching a consensus among stakeholders regarding the most important environmental factors as the focus of impact studies . To help address this gap we developed a weight of evidence approach as a preliminary and coarse assessment of the most relevant impacts of hydropower on primary components of the river ecosystem as identified using river function indicators . Through a science based questionnaire and predictive model users identify which environmental indicators may be impacted during hydropower development as well as those indicators that have the highest levels of uncertainty and require further investigation . Furthermore an assessment tool visualizes inter dependent indicator relationships which help formulate hypotheses about causal relationships explored through environmental studies . We apply these tools to four existing hydropower projects and one hypothetical new hydropower project of varying sizes and environmental contexts . We observed consistencies between the output of our tools and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensing process but also important differences arising from holistic scientific evaluations versus regulatory policies . The tools presented herein are aimed at increasing the efficiency of the EIA processes that engender environmental studies without loss of rigor or transparency of rationale necessary for understanding considering and mitigating the environmental consequences of hydropower .

@highlight Global hydropower expansion requires effective environmental impact assessment.
@highlight We design a prototype toolkit to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of EIAs.
@highlight Indicators determine relevant hydropower impacts on rivers via weight of evidence.
@highlight Tools predict impacts with a few attributes and examine linkages among indicators.
@highlight We apply the tools to a series of case studies to show the utility and application.
