 Powdered activated carbon blocks are waste products obtained from household drinking water purification systems . In this study we demonstrate that they can be used as adsorbents for the cost effective and environmentally benign removal of hexavalent chromium from contaminated water and rinse electroplating wastewater . To evaluate Cr sorption onto the PACB studies on equilibrium kinetics and thermodynamics were performed using batch mode experiments . The experimental results indicated that Cr ions were efficiently adsorbed under acidic conditions and low initial Cr concentrations . The adsorptive behaviors of the PACB for Cr were well explained by the Langmuir isotherm as well as pseudo second order kinetic models suggesting that a Cr monolayer was adsorbed onto the PACB surface via chemisorption . The maximum adsorption capacity of Cr onto the PACB was determined to be 6.207mg g. The results of thermodynamic studies revealed that the adsorption process of Cr onto PACB was endothermic and non spontaneous . Additionally analysis of the PACB after Cr adsorption at an initial pH of 2 using scanning electron microscopy energy dispersive spectrometry Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy Raman spectroscopy and X ray photoelectron spectroscopy revealed that the interaction between the surface oxygenic functional groups on the PACB and Cr was primarily responsible for Cr sorption via surface complexation and electrostatic interactions . Based on the result of XPS analysis the presence of trivalent chromium on the PACB surfaces indicated that some synergistic redox reactions involving Cr could have occurred during the sorption process . Although a commercially available powdered activated carbon outperformed the PACB adsorbent with respect to Cr removal from wastewater complete Cr adsorption could be achieved using relatively large quantities of the PACB . These findings indicate that the PACB adsorbent could be used as a cheap and efficient material for the removal of Cr from wastewater .

@highlight We reused activated carbon from carbon cartridge filter for Cr VI removal.
@highlight The PACB adsorbent showed a maximum Langmuir Cr VI adsorption capacity of 6.207mg g.
@highlight Cr VI adsorption was preferentially realized at initial pH values below 3.
@highlight Cr VI was concurrently reduced to Cr III via the redox activity of PACB.
@highlight Cr VI was efficiently removed from rinse electroplating wastewater by PACB adsorbent.
