 City level carbon footprint has been recognized as a useful measure of anthropogenic impact on climate change associated with citizens activities within the administrative boundary . Although the promotion of consumer responsibility suggests rethinking urban indirect emissions the detailed methodology is far from satisfactory for realistic applications . Due to the lack of multi regional input output tables for most cities there is a wide application of single regional input output tables . However there still lacks further discussion on if there will be an obvious evaluation bias by applying city level single regional tables rather than multi regional ones . To visualize the table coverage on its application consequence both single and multi regional input output tables were employed to compare disparities in the carbon footprint accounting in the case of Tokyo Japan . Our analysis shows that the gap of emissions driven by Tokyo s final demand between single and multi regional input output tables was considerably large . Furthermore the results of multi regional table were found to be 8.11 MtC higher for coal generated emissions 7.83 MtC for crude oil generated emissions and 2.90 MtC for natural gas generated emissions than those of the single regional table . The largest deviation in emissions accounting was observed in the power gas and heating supply sector the construction sector and the private service sector . The gap between these two input output tables was notable for all three types of fossil fuels . These indicated that coal generated emissions have been largely ignored by single regional input output table . The study highlighted the difference of carbon footprint accounting between these two types of input output tables . Our findings are intended to assist policymakers and scholars in pinpointing and reallocating sectors that are likely to yield severely biased evaluation of emissions embodied in trade when a multi regional table is not available .

@highlight The carbon footprint of regional activities is measured using input output analysis.
@highlight Both SRIO and MRIO analyses are used to demonstrate evaluation disparities in Tokyo.
@highlight Urban coal consumption is largely ignored when the SRIO model is applied.
@highlight Reallocation of some sectors would be required when MRIO is unavailable.
