 Regime shifts persistent changes in the structure and function of an ecosystem are well documented for some ecosystems and have informed research and management of these ecosystems . In floodplain river ecosystems there is growing interest from restoration practitioners in ecological resilience yet regime shifts remain poorly understood in these ecosystems . To understand how regime shifts may apply to floodplain river ecosystems we synthesize our understanding of ecosystem dynamics using an alternate regimes conceptual framework . We present three plausible sets of alternate regimes relevant to natural resource management interests within the Upper Mississippi River and Illinois River . These alternate regimes include 1 a clear water and abundant vegetation regime vs. a turbid water and sparse vegetation regime in lentic off channel areas 2 a diverse native fish community regime vs. an invasive dominated fish community regime and 3 a regime characterized by a diverse and dynamic mosaic of floodplain vegetation types vs. one characterized as a persistent invasive wet meadow monoculture . For each set of potential alternate regimes we review available literature to synthesize known or hypothesized feedback mechanisms that reinforce regimes controlling variables that drive regime transitions and current restoration pathways . Our conceptual models provide preliminary support for the existence of alternate regimes in floodplain river ecosystems . Quantitatively testing hypotheses contained within the conceptual model are important next steps in evaluating the model . Ultimately the synthesis and evaluation of alternate regimes can inform the utility of resilience concepts in restoration and management on the Upper Mississippi River and Illinois River and improve our understanding of ecosystem dynamics in other large heavily managed floodplain river ecosystems .

@highlight Alternate regime concepts have rarely been applied to river ecosystems.
@highlight We assess three potential sets of alternate regimes for a large river.
@highlight Long term changes in the Upper Mississippi River are consistent with regime shifts.
@highlight Altered disturbance dynamics and invasive species coincide with observed changes.
@highlight Conceptual models of alternate regimes provide insights into river ecosystems.
