 Toll plazas are places on the road network where increased emissions of exhaust gases occur due to changes in vehicle driving regime in their corresponding impact areas . Therefore they provide a great potential in terms of the ability to significantly reduce the emission of pollutants by using advanced technologies . In light of this this paper aims at getting the most accurate quantification of pollutant emission for the various vehicle categories which use Manuel System Electronic toll collection with mechanical barriers and Multi Lane Free Flow system for determining ecological benefits that can be achieved using advanced tolling systems . The measurement of the emission of harmful gases was carried out in real field conditions for the five most common classes of passenger cars light truck and semi trailer truck . Vehicle speed fuel consumption and emission of pollutants were recorded every second in various driving processes in the impact areas of toll plazas as well as in numerous scenarios that involve a different number of vehicles in a queue . The obtained results show that the use of the MLFF system compared to the MS can achieve a reduction in CO2 in the range of 25 45 and the reduction in NOx in the range of 32 98 depending on the type of vehicle and the considered scenario . The case study of the tolling system in the Republic of Serbia on a sample of 77 408 112 vehicles has shown that moving from the existing to an advanced MLFF tolling system allows for annual ecological benefits ranging from 1 349 862 to 1 491 391 .

@highlight Field research of car and truck pollutant emission using different toll systems.
@highlight Determination of emission of different driving modes for the tested toll systems.
@highlight Significant ecological benefits achieved by the advanced toll system implementation.
@highlight Contribution to reduction of greenhouse gases global warming and climate change.
@highlight Ecological benefits quantified through the Case Study of the Republic of Serbia.
