 Industrial activities lead to the contamination of large amounts of soils polluted by both inorganic and organic compounds which are difficult to treat due to different chemical properties . The efficiency of a decontamination process developed to simultaneously remove mixed contamination of industrial soils was evaluated at the pilot scale as well as operating costs associated to that process to define the best remediation approach . The results showed that the treatment of the coarse fractions of 40kg of soil by attrition in countercurrent mode allowed the removal of 1742 of As 331 of Cr 2038 of Cu and 6475 of polychlorinated dioxins and furans . Removals of 60 for As 2.2 for Cr 23 for Cu and 74 for PCDD F were obtained during the treatment of attrition sludge by alkaline leaching process . However the results of the techno economic evaluation carried out on a fixed plant with an annual treatment capacity of 7560 tons of soil treated showed that the estimated overall costs for the attrition process alone were lower than the costs of the process which additionally includes an alkaline leaching step to treat attrition sludge . This techno economic evaluation also showed that the process becomes competitive with current disposal options from a certain treatment capacity which is around of 3465 tst yr for the scenario 1 and 6930 tst yr for the scenario 2 . On the other hand the techno economic evaluations are crucial to selecting feasible decontamination process for a soil remediation project with considerations of the type of contamination site characteristics and cost effectiveness .

@highlight A soil decontamination process was tested to remove metals and organic compounds.
@highlight Attrition in countercurrent mode was applied on the coarse fraction alone.
@highlight Alkaline leaching process was tested for the treatment of attrition sludge.
@highlight The attrition removed 1742 As 331 Cr 2038 Cu and 6475 PCDD F.
@highlight The alkaline leaching process removed 60 As 2.2 Cr 23 Cu and 74 PCDD F.
