 Climate change impacts on diverse cultural heritage is gaining scholarly and policy attention yet little research has been conducted on how can diverse cultural heritage inform decisionmakers and policymakers in achieving climate change actions . For this study we conducted semi structured interviews with Dutch cultural heritage and environmental or climate change experts and participant observations across the Netherlands to explore the importance of cultural heritage benefits and their relation to climate change actions . We also explored the perceptions of cultural heritage management over time including the influence of climate policy on heritage practice in the Netherlands . Our findings show that experts perceived a multiplicity of heritage benefits as important in supporting and informing present and future climate change actions . The most salient benefits were informational benefits where diverse cultural heritage is perceived as an important source of knowledge about past societal economic and environmental developments and changes . Further heritage management was perceived as constantly changing over time reflecting the transformative nature of diverse heritage types . Experts agreed that climate policy has already influenced cultural heritage practice in the Netherlands . Lastly the interrelationships between heritage benefits and management were identified and characterised . This study informs both cultural heritage and climate change research agendas and helps leverage diverse cultural heritage into climate change adaptation and mitigation policies .

@highlight Cultural heritage can support climate change actions in the Netherlands.
@highlight The most salient benefits are informational benefits followed by social benefits.
@highlight Cultural heritage management has been changing and continuously evolving.
@highlight Heritage practice has changed and may further change due to climate policy.
@highlight Interrelationships between heritage benefits and management are identified.
