 Understanding the distribution and structure of biotopes is essential for marine conservation according to international legislation such as the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive . The biotope Sea Pen and Burrowing Megafuna Communities is included in the OSPAR list of threatened and or declining habitats . Accordingly the MSFD prescribes a monitoring of this biotope by the member states of the EU . In the German North Sea however the distribution and spatial extent of this biotope as well as the structuring of its benthic species inventory is unknown . We used an extensive geo referenced dataset on occurrence abundance and biomass of the benthic infauna of the south eastern North Sea to estimate the distribution of the biotope and to characterize the associated infauna assemblages . Sediment preferences of the burrowing megafauna comprising decapod crustaceans and echiurids were identified and the core distribution areas of the burrowing megafauna were modelled using Random Forests . Clusters of benthic infauna inside the core distribution areas were identified by fuzzy clustering . The burrowing megafauna occurred on a wide range of sediments with varying mud contents . The core distribution area of the burrowing megafauna was characterized by elevated mud content and a water depth of 2555m . The analysis of the benthic communities and their relation to sedimentological conditions identified four infauna clusters of slightly varying species composition . The biotope type Sea Pen and Burrowing Megafuna Communities is primarily located inside the paleo valley of the river Elbe and covers an area of 4980km

@highlight The distribution of an endangered benthic biotope in the SE North Sea is modelled.
@highlight Benthic communities of the muddy biotope are identified.
@highlight Analyses are based on an extensive multi annual dataset.
@highlight Results facilitate planning of mandatory environmental monitoring.
@highlight Maps are provided for communication of results to stakeholders.
