 This review intends to integrate the relevant information that is related to pesticide applications in food commodities and will cover three main sections . The first section encompasses some of the guidelines that have been implemented on management of pesticide application worldwide such as the establishment of a value called Maximum Residue Level through the application of Good Agricultural Practices into daily agricultural activities . A brief overview of the methods adopted in quantification of these trace residues in different food samples will also be covered . Briefly pesticide analysis is usually performed in two stages sample preparation and analytical instrumentation . Some of the preparation methods such as QuEChERs still remain as the technique of choice for most of the analytical scientists . In terms of the instrumentation such as the gas chromatography mass spectrophotometry and high performance liquid chromatography these are still widely used in spite of new inventions that are more sustainable and efficient such as the capillary electrophoresis . Finally the third section emphasizes on how pesticides can affect our health significantly whereby different types of pesticides result in different adverse health implications despite its application benefits in agriculture in controlling pests . To date there are limited reviews on pesticide usage in many agricultural based nations for the purpose of this review Malaysia is selected to better illustrate pesticide regulations and implementation of policies . Finally the review aims to provide an insight on how implementation of GAP and food safety assurance are inter related and with this established correlation to identify further measures for improvement to enable reinforcement of optimised agricultural practices specifically in these countries .

@highlight MRLs and a few other parameters have been established to ascertain the safe value of pesticide residues in food commodities.
@highlight Different examples of technologies in pesticide quantification are discussed.
@highlight Preserving the agriculture sustainability of a nation can be achieved by implementing relevant regulations and policies with regard to GAPs.
@highlight The application of pesticide in agriculture based countries especially Malaysia has a significant impact on the economic development of the nation but unfortunately poses great harm to human health in various aspects.
