 To identify the key contributors of urban carbon emissions as well as the acting paths it is necessary to analyze the carbon flows from a systematic perspective . Thus the concept of urban carbon metabolism was introduced in this paper and correspondingly input output analysis and ecological network analysis were combined to conduct the carbon metabolism analysis . Concretely speaking the urban IO table was compiled based on the provincial one and then the direct and embodied urban carbon flows were accounted . Subsequently the carbon metabolic network model was established through which the characteristics of the metabolic network were further analyzed to better reveal the contributors and influencing factors of carbon emissions . Dongguan a city famous as the factory of the world was chosen as the case . The results indicate that the total direct and embodied carbon flows were mainly concentrated in manufacture . Manufacture was found to be major factors affecting other compartments through indirect interplay . A trophic hierarchical structure was found where compartments can be classified into primary producers secondary producers primary consumers and secondary consumers according to their metabolic characteristics in use of energy . Electricity gas water were defined as secondary producer and its self induced carbon flows accounted for more than 95 of the carbon flow conversion within this compartment . By further comparing the metabolic characteristics in Dongguan with that of Guangdong Province and other cities measures were suggested to heighten energy utilization efficiency and promote positive interactions among compartments to promote the carbon emission reduction in Dongguan .

@highlight A new method to compile the input output table of urban carbon flows is proposed.
@highlight The direct and embodied carbon flows are accounted via input output analysis IOA .
@highlight The interactions among sectors is checked using ecological network analysis ENA .
@highlight The carbon metabolism of Dongguan is analyzed by combining IOA and ENA.
