 Petroleum refinery and petrochemical plants are one of the major contributors to toxic and recalcitrant organic polluted water which has become a significant concern in the field of environmental engineering . Several contaminants of PRPP wastewater are genotoxic phytotoxic and carcinogenic thereby imposing detrimental effects on the environment . Many biological processes were able to achieve chemical oxygen demand removal ranging from 60 to 90 and their retention time usually ranged from 10 to 100 days . These methods were not efficient in removing the petroleum hydrocarbons present in PRPP wastewater and produced a significant amount of oily sludge . Advanced oxidation processes achieved the same COD removal efficiency in a few hours and were able to break down recalcitrant organic compounds . However the associated high cost is a significant drawback concerning PRPP wastewater treatment . In this context constructed wetlands could effectively remove the recalcitrant organic fraction of the wastewater because of the various inherent mechanisms involved such as phytodegradation rhizofiltration microbial degradation sorption etc . In this review we found that CWs were efficient in handling large quantities of high strength PRPP wastewater exhibiting average COD removal of around 80 . Horizontal subsurface flow CWs exhibited better performance than the free surface and floating CWs . These systems could also effectively remove heavy oil and recalcitrant organic compounds with an average removal efficiency exceeding 80 and 90 respectively . Furthermore modifications by varying the aeration system purposeful hybridization and identifying the suitable substrate led to the enhanced performance of the systems .

@highlight PRPP wastewater comprises of recalcitrant organic fraction which are highly toxic.
@highlight Among single system CWs HSSF CWs were found to be the most efficient.
@highlight Major processes in CWs are phytoremediation microbial degradation and filtration.
@highlight sp. and
@highlight sp. were efficient in PRPP wastewater treatment.
@highlight Modifications such as flow regime aeration etc. improve the efficiency of CWs.
