 The mining industry is a major contributor to Australia s economy . However such returns may come at high environmental and social costs including loss of biodiversity or heritage values . Thus companies worldwide are required to rehabilitate mine sites to a state that is safe non polluting and capable of supporting an agreed post mining land use . While national and international guidelines on mine rehabilitation and closure exist there is a lack of guidance on how to define achievable and measurable criteria that reflect rehabilitation success . This often leads to discrepancies between proponents and regulators which hinder progression towards mine closure and relinquishment . The purpose of this study was to develop a systematic framework for the definition of completion criteria for mine closure and rehabilitation . The study was informed by a global review of the literature and collaborative research with mining stakeholders from Western Australia . The proposed framework consists of six fundamental steps 1 selection of post mining land use 2 definition of aspects and closure objectives 3 selection of reference 4 selection of attributes 5 definition of completion criteria and 6 evaluation of performance . This framework is the first to provide a step by step guide for defining site specific completion criteria and applying a risk based monitoring approach throughout the life of mine . The framework is applicable across jurisdictions and industries in Australia and internationally that require similar rehabilitation of disturbed lands .

@highlight Companies must rehabilitate mine sites to a state that supports future land uses.
@highlight Unrealistic rehabilitation targets impede mine closure and relinquishment.
@highlight Clear guidance on defining measurable achievable completion criteria is lacking.
@highlight We present a six step guide to define mine completion criteria.
@highlight The framework is applicable internationally and across extractive industries.
