 The urban heat island effect is an increasingly consequential problem that confronts cities . The accurate characterization and quantification of UHI are crucial for sustainable urban development . Few UHI studies however compare data source spatio temporal variations and indicators for the same city in parallel . This study uses Changchun a snow climate city in China as an example and compares five different indicators of the UHI based on land surface temperature derived from Landsat 8 TIRS and hourly air temperature collected from 41 meteorological weather stations to conduct a more comprehensive comparative study of the UHI . The results show the following . The relationships between LST and AT are all statistically significant and the surface urban heat island intensity characterized by the LST is considerably stronger than that of AT both in summer and winter . The SUHI intensity is significantly stronger in summer than in winter based on the morning LST whereas the UHI intensity that is simultaneously quantified by the AT has an opposite result . The mean whole day and daytime UHI intensity difference which is quantified hourly by the AT between summer and winter is not significant . The difference between nighttime and daytime UHI intensities is evident in both summer and winter . Additionally the high temperatures for both LST and AT have a more concentrated distribution in winter than in summer . The values of UHI SUHI intensity considerably vary based on different indicators . The different choices among land covers to represent urban and rural areas would significantly affect the values of UHI SUHI intensity . The selection of appropriate indicators and data sources to quantify the UHI remains a problem that has to be resolved in future studies .

@highlight The differences between hourly air temperature and land surface temperature for quantifying UHI SUHI were explored.
@highlight The spatial patterns and temporal variations of UHI SUHI in parallel were discussed.
@highlight Five different indicators for characterizing UHI SUHI UHI driven vs. land cover driven were investigated.
@highlight The mean whole day and daytime UHI intensity difference between summer and winter was not significant.
