 The hierarchical supports have motivated intensive research interests of chemists in the catalytic field because of the rational combination of mass transport property and large surface area . In this work hydroxyapatite supported nickel catalysts were prepared and employed to promote the dry reforming of methane . The proportion of mesopore macropore in HAP was adjusted by the heating temperature during the preparation process . The pore structure played an important role in regulating the physiochemical properties and thus affecting the catalytic performance in DRM . With increasing the proportion of mesopore on HAP Ni preferentially dispersed on mesopore channel to form small size particles . All catalysts possessed weak interaction between Ni nanoparticles and HAP however the interaction enhanced gradually with decreasing the Ni particles diameter . High proportion of macropore led to large size Ni nanoparticle while high proportion of small size mesopore at 25nm resulted in the complete blockage of these pore structures . These two boundary situations led to relatively weak interaction between nickel particles and the support low metal dispersion and hence low activity as well as rapid deactivation in the DRM evaluation . Ni nanoparticles on HAP 80 and HAP 120 supports possessed relatively higher dispersion which imparted these two catalysts with the function of strong anti sintering ability and carbon resistance thereby exhibiting better catalytic activity and stability in DRM evaluation . The deactivation of all catalysts during the reforming reaction was mainly ascribed to the sintering as well as encapsulation of Ni nanoparticles by graphitic carbon .

@highlight Heating temperature influenced the proportion of mesopore macropore in HAP supports.
@highlight Pore structure of HAP affected nickel nanoparticle size in Ni HAP catalysts.
@highlight Ni HAP 80 and Ni HAP 120 exhibited better DRM catalytic activity and stability.
@highlight Increasing the mesopore proportion on HAP was favorable to form small Ni particles.
@highlight Small size mesopore at 25nm resulted in the complete pore blockage.
