 Woody biomass is being considered a potential co firing fuel to reduce coal consumption in iron ore pelletizing rotary kilns . An important consideration is the slagging inside the kiln caused by ash deposition that can lead to process disturbances or shutdowns . In terms of ash chemistry co firing woody biomass implies the addition of mainly Ca and K to the Si and Al dominated coal ash and Fe from the iron ore that are both inherent to the process . An alkali laden gaseous atmosphere is also present due to the accumulation of alkali via the recirculation of flue gas in the system . The slagging propensity of blending woody biomass with coal in the grate kiln process was studied based on the viscosity of the molten phases predicted by global thermochemical equilibrium modeling . This was carried out for variations in temperature gaseous KOH atmosphere and fuel blending levels . Results were evaluated and compared using a qualitative slagging indicator previously proposed by the authors where an inverse relationship between deposition tendency and the viscosity of the molten fraction of the ash was established . The results were also compared with a set of co firing experiments performed in a pilot scale experimental combustion furnace . In general the co firing of woody biomass would likely increase the slagging tendency via the increased formation of low viscosity melts . The fluxing behavior of biomass ash potentially reduces the viscosity of the Fe rich aluminosilicate melt and intensifies deposition . However the results also revealed that there are certain conditions where deposition tendency may decrease via the formation of high melting point alkali containing solid phases .

@highlight Melt fraction of the condensed phases increases with increasing woody biomass share
@highlight Viscosity decreases with increasing KOH g concentration and pellet dust share
@highlight An inverse relationship between viscosity and absolute deposition was observed
@highlight Absolute deposition is proportional to the flow of molten matter in the furnace
@highlight Ash composition plays a significant role in the formation of sintered deposits
@highlight The presence of fluxing agents in woody biomass ash facilitates slagging deposition
