 Assessing some of the very basic physical and chemical properties such as moisture content specific gravity fixed solids volatile solids pH VFA Alkalinity hydrolyzable solid matter orthophosphate concentration sulfate concentration and inorganic nitrogen concentration of fruit and vegetable waste is fundamental towards its efficient management . The present study establishes a cost effective measurement technique protocol to characterize FVW that not only helps in understanding the nature of the FVW generating at a particular place but also helps in designing the appropriate waste to energy technology that ameliorates the generated FVW . As such the characterization results in the present study were used to design a novel two stage hybrid anaerobic digester . The proposed measurement technique protocol can be very easily replicated at any standard chemical laboratory having basic facilities . Besides it can also be extended to characterizing any such organic solid waste that resembles the nature of FVW and with the slightest of modification can also be used to characterize organic fraction of the municipal solid waste on the whole . The results of the chemical characterization for the fresh 24 h old 48 h old and 72 h old FVW matter indicated the suitability of 24 h old FVW matter to undergo the highest degree of stabilization via anaerobic digestion . Results from subsequent batch studies pertaining to the stabilization of the aforesaid four FVW types via the designed two stage anaerobic digester corroborated this observation . AD of 24 h old FVW yielded the highest biogas production rate 12.5Ld

@highlight Detailed characterization of Fruit and Vegetable Waste FVW was techno economically accomplished.
@highlight Proposed characterization technique governed efficient design of anaerobic digester.
@highlight Proposed characterization technique enabled selection of apposite operational conditions.
@highlight Amelioration of 24 h old FVW via anaerobic digestion AD offers highest biogas generation.
@highlight Multi stage AD of 24 h old FVW offers increased degree of operational flexibility.
