 The promising and challenging approach of microbial fuel cell is a novel concept in wastewater treatment facilities which utilizes microbial metabolism to produce direct electricity while treating wastewater sludge . Despite potential advantages of MFCs and encouraging results obtained at laboratory scale low power density and high costs of initial investment and operation have limited their commercial application . Therefore in order to promote MFCs utilization in a sustainable manner the synergistic effect of MFCs integrated to other wastewater treatment processes seems efficacious . Among the proposed MFC hybrid systems the integration of anaerobic treatment processes and membrane bioreactors with MFCs have been adopted due to the practical implementation potential and the highly positive synergetic effect on energy recovery power output and treatment efficiency . In AnTP MFC coupled system efficient handling of high COD loaded influents and significant organic load reduction along with improved energy conversion efficiency and energy recovery is accomplished . In MFC MBR hybrid system the MBR improves the effluent quality to a high level while the energy consumption and membrane fouling of MBR are alleviated by MFC . The hybrid processes benefit from MFCs as an online low cost efficient biosensor as well . Current trends purposes and progresses in respect of these two cardinal hybrid processes are discussed and tables comprised of a wide range of researches within the scope of the integrations are provided in full details to gather a comprehensive literature . Finally a multilateral evaluation plan required to make integrated MFC processes competitive against the practically implemented ones is proposed .

@highlight The hybrid processes of AnTP MFC and MFC MBR are reviewed.
@highlight In AnTP MFC efficient organic load reduction improved ECE and ER are achieved.
@highlight In MBR MFC high quality effluent reduced energy demand and fouling are gained.
@highlight The hybrid processes also benefit from MFCs as online low cost efficient biosensor.
@highlight Process design and multilateral evaluation are critical for practical application.
