 Parameters calibration of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 for various substrates at different operating conditions is an essential key to widely increase the practical application of this model . In this study the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 incorporated in the Matlab Simulink platform was calibrated to simulate a mesophilic lab scale reactor fed with the organic fraction of municipal solid waste operated at five different organic loading rates with a constant solid retention time of 25 days . The Shannon entropy was applied as a sensitivity index to identify important parameters as five indicators biogas flow methane flow pH effluent COD and ammonia . The sensitivity analysis revealed that the parameters of biogas flow indicator with entropy higher than 0.2dB could cover all other indicators parameters . The 13 important kinetic parameters including maximum specific uptake rate of sugar propionate acetate and C4 were estimated using the genetic algorithms . The calibrated parameters were validated with the last 50 days of operation in which the overloading situation occurred . While the non calibrated model failed to predict the biogas flow at the overloading situation the calibrated ADM1 reasonably simulated the decreasing trend of the produced biogas flow . Therefore the Shannon entropy performed well in recognition of sensitive parameters of the complicated nonlinear ADM1 . Nevertheless there are differences between the simulated and experimental results of pH and effluent COD which resulted in the decline of accuracy for other products of biogas and methane flow . The cumulative biogas production and average composition of biogas flow were predicted well with rAE of 0.04 and 0.18 respectively .

@highlight ADM1 was calibrated for digestion of OFMSW at various organic loading rates.
@highlight Model calibration used Shannon Entropy as the sensitivity index SI .
@highlight Genetic Algorithms GAs was used to optimize the important parameters.
@highlight The calibrated model predicted well the performance of AD bench scale.
