 Brazil has a long history of sugarcane development and since the 2000s has undergone a significant increase in land cultivated with sugarcane . Policy driven demand and a growing international market mean that sugarcane cultivation in Brazil is expected to increase in the coming years . Rising land prices and strengthened environmental legislation in So Paulo state where the bulk of production occurs have led farmers and investors to seek new land to cultivate . As a result the Centre West region including the state of Mato Grosso do Sul has become an epicentre for sugarcane expansion in Brazil . While the social economic and environmental impacts of sugarcane have been well documented for the state of So Paulo much less is known about these impacts in new sugarcane frontier regions . This paper addresses an important gap in the literature through an assessment of the relationship between human development and presence or absence of a sugar mill in municipalities in Mato Grosso do Sul . Drawing on the UN Human Development Index and the Social Responsibility Index of So Paulo this paper develops a method to examine the relationship between the presence of sugarcane processing mills and human development at the municipal level in Mato Grosso do Sul . The paper finds evidence that municipalities with a mill perform relatively better in terms of human development than those without but that municipalities with mills already performed relatively better than those without . This raises important questions about how are and where the socio economic benefits of sugarcane materialise .

@highlight Mato Grosso do Sul is an epicentre of sugarcane expansion in Brazil.
@highlight Investigates the relationship between human development and presence of a sugarcane mill.
@highlight Develops a measure of human development for municipalities in Mato Grosso do Sul.
@highlight Finds evidence of a relationship between sugar mills and municipal development.
@highlight Preference for establishing mills in the most developed municipalities.
