 Switchgrass is a perennial herbaceous plant regarded as a biomass energy crop in the United States for its high adaptability and yield potential . Processing and handling of switchgrass particles are challenging due to the erratic mechanical and flow behavior originating from their intrinsic particulate properties . In this work we present a bonded sphere discrete element model designed specifically for switchgrass particles . The model simultaneously captures three key particulate features i.e . fibrous particle shapes a wide range of particle sizes and particle deformability . Realistic yet computationally efficient particle shape templates are created based on the image analysis data of switchgrass specimens . A fitting procedure is proposed to ensure both the particle width and length distributions are captured a unique requirement for fibrous particles . Two full scale numerical models i.e . a uniaxial compression model and a Schulze ring shear model are developed using information from physical experiments . The model is calibrated using experimental data of chopped small switchgrass specimens and then is validated using data of chopped large specimens in both compression and ring shear tests . Numerical results show that the numerical models capture bulk densities accurately while slightly underestimate the bulk friction angle . Furthermore an extensive sensitivity analysis reveals that switchgrass particles with rougher edges exhibit a higher shear strength and a lower flowability stiffer particles yield a lower bulk density compared to more deformable particles indicating particle deformability should be incorporated when modeling biomass flow in a preprocessing system .

@highlight A bonded sphere discrete element model designed specifically for switchgrass particles.
@highlight Fibrous particle shapes particle sizes and particle deformability are explicitly captured.
@highlight Realistic yet computationally efficient shape templates are developed based on image data.
@highlight Model is validated in both compression and Schulze ring shear tests.
@highlight Particle deformability significantly impacts bulk density.
