 Torrefied biomass is said to have potential as a replacement for coal . One of the main goals of torrefaction is to make biomass resemble coal more in terms of its properties as a solid fuel . As a fuel a novel fuel that is produced by thermal treatment of raw biomass biocoal has to comply with the regulations of solid fuels from different regulatory bodies . The production regime is different in comparison to the thermally treated fuel already established on the market such as charcoal . This might raise an issue with the bodies controlling the circulation of chemical substances in the market such as ECHA in Europe . The aim of this paper is to recommend suitable analytical techniques in order to enable effective quality control . This is necessary if biomass of low and highly variable quality is supposed to become more uniform and turn into a commodity . Information given in many published studies seems sufficient to use of FTIR and NIR as quality control techniques . The use of NMR can be complementary but is limited due to the high cost of the analytical equipment and time consuming sample preparation . Rapid testing techniques such as FTIR ATR or NIR might prove feasible for quality control of solid biofuels such as biocoal especially for in house quality control purposes . This way proper quality assurance and compliance with various novel regulations such as REACH could be assured . Further research could be helpful especially if results would be available in publicly available databases such as Phyllis .

@highlight The need of wider use of novel rapid analytical techniques is outlined.
@highlight Novel analytical techniques suitable for biocoal are described and compared.
@highlight The literature on the analysis of biocoal using techniques such as FTIR NIR and NMR is a subject of detailed review.
@highlight Peaks already determined in the literature within the spectra of the aforementioned techniques are listed in tables.
@highlight Areas of future development and advantages of the novel techniques are assessed.
