 Currently feasible construction practices are not enough to reach zero energy buildings therefore European Union legislation states that new buildings and renovations should be designed as nearly zero energy buildings however design alternatives need to be carefully considered and selected before implementation . This study aims to investigate the effect of building faade elements and energy efficient building systems on reaching nZEB with two different design approaches . These approaches are investigated through the case of a selected office building s faade retrofit options in terms of energy efficiency and thermal comfort . In the first DA different design variables of a double skin faade are investigated and optimized in order to decrease the total amount of consumed energy and the best parameters are used in the design of the south faade . In the second DA the building retrofit aims to meet nZEB criteria by redesigning the south building faade via genetic algorithm optimization while providing thermal comfort in all months and reducing the number of discomfort hours . The investigation is carried out via building energy simulation of a selected office building validated by indoor and outdoor measurements . The results show that the parameters of the building faade can play a significant role in decreasing the energy consumption of the building and both DAs decrease total energy consumption while utilizing currently feasible and common building technologies . Yet in the second DA not only is the energy consumption lower but it also significantly decreases discomfort hours .

@highlight The building faade plays an important role in reaching nearly zero energy buildings by retrofit.
@highlight The study investigates two design approaches to both reduce energy consumption and increase thermal comfort.
@highlight Feasible and common technologies can play a significant role in decreasing a building s energy consumption.
@highlight Double skin faades can show better performance in the Mediterranean climate when optimized by building energy simulation.
@highlight Decreasing both the number of thermal discomfort hours and energy consumption at the same time is possible.
