 Many countries have set renewable energy targets in their electricity supply mix to encourage investments in renewable energy technologies . In developing countries however many of such targets are either abandoned or fall far short of the target date primarily due to issues of financing cost of electricity and level of unmet demand . This paper presents a Generation Expansion Planning model that can be used to assess such issues when setting a renewable electricity generation target . In particular the model can be used by developing countries to set renewable electricity generation targets that are in line with their financial ability and thus stand a higher chance of being achieved . Additionally the analysis offered can inform developing countries of the cost and benefits of a renewable electricity generation target policy . The usefulness of the model is demonstrated using Ghana as a case . The results indicate that Ghana will need a budget of not less than 1 of its GDP for generation capacity investment if it desires to achieve its 10 renewable electricity generation target by 2030 while keeping unmet demand at reasonable levels . If Ghana however enforces the target at its current capacity investment levels it risks raising unmet demand levels by an average of 4 per year and cost of electricity provision by about US 224 million annually between 2019 and 2030 when compared to the absence of a renewable electricity generation target .

@highlight A model for setting and evaluating a renewable electricity RE target policy is developed.
@highlight Model allows for the estimation of impacts on levels of unmet electricity demand and cost of electricity provision.
@highlight Cost Benefit analysis of the renewable electricity target policy is provided.
@highlight A country must have in place adequate financial resources to benefit from transitioning to renewable energy.
@highlight When constrained financially a RE target policy is likely to impact negatively on supply and cost of electricity.
