 A transition towards a sustainable energy system is a challenging process that involves multiple stakeholders with differing viewpoints . Several transition pathways are possible but the decision regarding which pathway to follow should be based on a justifiable and transparent framework that accounts for the concerns of all relevant stakeholder groups . This study proposes a participatory stakeholder analysis process that includes a two dimensional power interest matrix and fuzzy logic to define and classify relevant stakeholder groups . The proposed framework was implemented to recognize the relevant stakeholder groups of the Icelandic energy system and assess their salience . The defined stakeholder groups were then evaluated based on two attributespower and interestusing data collected from a web based questionnaire . Considering the wide range of the attributes values for the many stakeholder groups fuzzy logic was applied to plot a 3D decision surface which provided a more accurate assessment of stakeholders salience . The generated power interest map visualizes the dynamic influential level of stakeholder groups when it comes to decision making concerning sustainable energy development . The fuzzy decision surface shows a more accurate image of the difference in the degree of power and interest and saliences of the stakeholder group . Results reveal that Decision makers Industrial Users Professional Interest groups and Energy Producers have the highest salience and are the most influential stakeholder groups concerning decision making . Less influential stakeholder group such as Landowners exhibit a high degree of variation in influential level across the sustainable energy themes . The findings suggest that Icelandic decision makers responsible for energy development face a complex challenge when it comes to designing and implementing a policy that is approved across all stakeholder groups . This study offers new insights to policymakers on the most influential stakeholder groups and the variation of influential level across stakeholders groups in the Icelandic energy system . Understanding the power and interest of different stakeholders can improve the decision and policy making process and promote a successful transition to a sustainable energy system .

@highlight Participatory stakeholder analysis of key stakeholder groups in the Icelandic energy system
@highlight Stakeholders map compares the power and interest levels of stakeholder groups
@highlight Fuzzy logic was applied for the dynamic classification of stakeholders
@highlight Delivers insightful information to policymakers towards sustainable energy transition
