 In this study we use water boiling tests controlled cooking tests and in home kitchen performance tests to analyze changes in fuel consumption and emissions resulting from low cost modifications to traditional open fires . The modifications consist of adding rock beds ceramic grates or metal grates to open fires . In both traditional and modified stoves cooking pots are supported over the fire using iron bars which is a common practice in rural Vietnamese households . The modifications increase airflow through the combustion zone and improve combustion efficiency . The rocks and grate also decrease the distance between the fire and cooking pot improving heat transfer . These low cost modifications improve stove performance in many categories 3858 reduction in wood consumption and 5184 reduction in emissions measured in WBTs 3437 reduction in wood consumption during simulated cooking with CCTs and 3145 reductions in per capita wood consumption measured during KPTs . Grates performed better than rock beds in nearly all tests . Surveys implemented in parallel with KPTs indicated favorable user perceptions of all low cost options . The modifications result in lower fuelwood consumption and emissions resulting in social and environmental benefits but they are unlikely reduce health impacts which many policies and programs now prioritize . Nevertheless there are numerous situations in which these options may be appropriate . In remote rural or otherwise marginalized communities clean cooking options may be inaccessible for the foreseeable future . Low cost modifications like rock beds and grates which require minimal training and changes in cooking habits could reduce the impacts of open fires . Similarly in places where clean cooking options are accessible but stove stacking with open fires persists these options could present a cost effective way to achieve a cleaner stack .

@highlight Modifying open fires with rock beds or grates is a low cost way to reduce impacts.
@highlight Rock beds and or grates can be implemented where cleaner options are unavailable.
@highlight Rock beds or grates to open fires reduce wood use up to 58 in lab tests.
@highlight Rock beds and or grates reduce CO and PM emissions by 5184 in lab tests.
@highlight Rock beds and or grates reduce wood consumption up to 45 in actual cooking.
