 Knowledge on the effects of climate change in a system can contribute to the better management of its water and energy resources . This study evaluates the consequences of alterations in the rainfall and temperature patterns for a hydroelectric plant . The methodology adopted consists of four steps . First a hydrological model is developed for the chosen basin following a semi distributed and conceptual approach . The hydrological model is calibrated utilizing the optimization algorithm Shuffled Complex Evolution University of Arizona and then validated . Secondly a hydropower model is developed for a hydroelectric plant of the chosen basin . The hydropower model is adjusted to the physical characteristics of the plant . Thirdly future climate scenarios are extracted from the literature for the studied area . These scenarios include quantitative and seasonal climate variations as well as different initial reservoir levels . Fourth the hydrological hydropower model is simulated for 52 scenarios and the impact of changes in the rainfall and temperature patterns for hydropower generation is evaluated . For each scenario the water storage in the reservoir and energy produced by the plant are analyzed . The financial impact for extreme scenarios is presented . The methodology is applied to the Trs Marias hydroelectric plant at the upper So Francisco river basin and it can be replicated to any other hydropower system . The results show that extreme positive values predicted for rainfall will likely not cause issues to the plant considering a moderate rise in temperature . However negative predictions for rainfall regardless of changes in temperature should be an alert to the authorities responsible for water and energy resources management .

@highlight The consequences of climate change for hydropower generation are evaluated.
@highlight A hydrological hydropower model is developed for the studied area.
@highlight The water storage and generated power are analyzed for 52 climate scenarios.
@highlight Wet scenarios with a moderate rise in temperature are positive for the plant.
@highlight Decrease in rainfall independent of the temperature compromise the plant operation.
