 To counteract the threat of global warming many nations have resorted to increasing their use of renewable energy sources wind farms being among the most popular . The greatest obstacle when it comes to the acceptance of wind farms is their visual impact . Recently tourism has become Iceland s largest export sector the country s natural landscape being the main attraction for visitors . This paper attempts to compare the perception of residents and tourists towards wind energy production in general and towards Iceland s first proposed wind farm to be located at the edge of the country s uninhabited interior Central Highlands . The study is based on a questionnaire survey conducted among residents living adjacent to the proposed wind farm and among tourists travelling through the proposed area . The results indicate that residents are more positive than tourists towards wind turbines and consider them less intrusive in the landscape . Hence the location of Iceland s first wind farm at the main gateway into the country s Central Highlands is problematic and likely to disturb the experience of tourists passing through the area . Despite the wealth of wind in Iceland it might be challenging to utilize it for energy production due to the importance of nature based tourism for the economy . If Iceland becomes a physical exporter of renewable energy it may be expected that more pressure will be set on the construction of wind farms . Thereby nature based tourism and wind energy would be in direct competition over land use .

@highlight Wind turbines reduce the naturalness of a landscape and the quality of wilderness.
@highlight Residents and tourists consider landscape without power plant infrastructure more beautiful.
@highlight Tolerance level towards landscape change is higher among residents than tourists.
@highlight Economic reasons are likely to influence residents opinion on wind energy production.
@highlight A wind farm in the Southern Highlands of Iceland poses a threat to the tourism industry.
