 In 2012 the Peruvian government launched the public private initiative for energy inclusion to promote equitable access to subsidised liquefied petroleum gas cylinders . The objective of this study was to explore cooking patterns attitudes towards the FISE programme and factors influencing LPG use in rural Andean Peru . Forty eight women from four communities completed a paper based questionnaire on cooking practices and demographic characteristics . They partook in focus group discussions and participant observation sessions . In addition we conducted 12 semi structured in depth interviews with local authorities FISE programme contractor officials and male family heads . Despite the large outreach of the FISE programme in the region discrepancies in the administrative practices of public and private partners made it difficult for FISE beneficiaries to obtain both LPG stoves and FISE voucher discounts . The complications experienced by households not connected to the electricity grid may serve as an illustration of this lack of coordination . The FISE programme inclusion criteria required a stable monthly electricity consumption of 30kW hours thus excluding families with prepaid electricity meters living in remote areas . Overall we found that the FISE programme did not lead to exclusive LPG use in our setting . LPG was the second preferred source of cooking energy after firewood and women only used LPG for preparing quick meals or for reheating meals . The main barriers limiting LPG use included purchasing costs difficulties completing other daily chores while cooking technologies not matching local cooking needs the need to save time and the perception that LPG affects the taste of food . Peruvian LPG programmes should harmonise their recruitment schemes and the FISE programme should modify its criteria to ensure the inclusion of all vulnerable populations . In view of the evidence obtained from other countries and the high prevalence of stove stacking practices LPG initiatives in rural Andean Peru merit from incorporating socio cultural dimensions and alternative cooking technologies adapted to local fuel preferences food cultures and cooking demands in order to achieve a sustained LPG transition .

@highlight The Peruvian national LPG programme FISE did not achieve a full energy transition.
@highlight Food taste and time to complete daily chores were key barriers for LPG uptake.
@highlight Lacking electricity or prepaid meters excluded families from the FISE programme.
@highlight The FISE programme should modify its criteria to reach all vulnerable populations.
