 How to tackle uncertainties and ensure quality in integrated assessment for sustainability To what extent does the choice of the methodology condition the narrative produced by the analysis The present work argues that the two questions are tightly coupled . The technique is never neutral . If we are the tools of our tools as suggested by Thoreau then it can also be said that language is not only a vehicle for communication it is the driver as well . For this reason in sustainability assessment it is not unusual to discern a close relationship between arguments made and methods adopted . In the present work a set of six reflexive analytical tools we call them lenses is suggested which could be pooled to the effect to appraise and improve the quality of integrated assessment and the resulting sustainability narratives and to alleviate the constraints of the method argument dependency . None of the lenses is new and each has been used before . Never have they been used together . The lenses are Post normal science Controversy studies Sensitivity auditing Bioeconomics Ethics of science for governance and Non Ricardian economics . The six lenses are illustrated together with a set of case narratives arguments . The lenses allow some narratives or methodologies to be shown as either implausible or inadequate and new narratives to be developed to tackle pressing sustainability issues which expand the horizon of possible strategies for a solution .

@highlight The choice of the methodology conditions the narrative produced by an analysis.
@highlight For this reason a broad canvass of approaches is advisable when tackling complex and conflicted topics.
@highlight Pooled methodologies are proposed here to tackle uncertainties and ensure quality in sustainability integrated assessment.
@highlight We combine six lenses and illustrate their applications both in isolation and combined.
@highlight The lenses are i Post normal science PNS ii Controversy studies iii Sensitivity auditing iv Bioeconomics v Ethics of science for governance and vi Non Ricardian economics.
