 One of the greatest challenges humanity faces is feeding the worlds human population in a sustainable nutritious equitable and ethical way under a changing climate . Urgent transformations are needed that allow farmers to adapt and develop while also being climate resilient and contributing minimal emissions . This paper identifies several illustrative adaptation and development pathways recognising the variety of starting points of different types of farmers and the ways their activities intersect with global trends such as population growth climate change rapid urbanisation dietary changes competing land uses and the emergence of new technologies . The feasibility of some pathways depends on factors such as farm size and land consolidation . For other pathways particular infrastructure technology access to credit and market access or collective action are required . The most viable pathway for some farmers may be to exit agriculture altogether which itself requires careful management and planning . While technology offers hope and opportunity as a disruptor it also risks maladaptations and can create tradeoffs and exacerbate inequalities especially in the context of an uncertain future . For both the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2015 Paris Agreement to be achieved a mix of levers that combine policy technology education and awareness raising dietary shifts and financial economic mechanisms is required attending to multiple time dimensions to assist farmers along different pathways . Vulnerable groups such as women and the youth must not be left behind . Overall strong good governance is needed at multiple levels combining top down and bottom up processes .

@highlight Business as usual agriculture is not an option for the future.
@highlight Different types of farmers need different adaptation and development options.
@highlight Many current farmers are likely to exit agriculture.
@highlight Disruptors can change trajectories and accelerate transformation.
@highlight Good governance is critical to support low carbon food security.
