 The environmental behaviour of tourists in tourism activities is the result of the interaction of human and environment . Previous research on tourists environmental behaviour has given more attention to tourists human factors including their individual psychological factors . However the environment factors have not received much attention in the research especially the influence of the situational factors of tourist destinations on tourists environmental behaviour . Public environmental facilities is an important part of tourist destinations and the main situational factor . Furthermore previous studies on tourists environmental behaviours have focused more on environmentally responsible behaviours which often has a positive impact on the environment . However environmentally disturbing behaviours which often has a negative impact on the environment has not been fully examined in previous studies . Based on the theory of planned behaviour this research conducted a questionnaire survey to 534 tourists to explore the impact of PEF on tourists EDB using the structural equation model and multi group analysis method . The first finding was that tourists attitudes and subjective norms have significant negative effects on their environmentally disturbing behavioural intentions . Perceived behavioural control has a significant negative impact on EDBI and EDB . Additionally there is a significant positive impact of EDBI on EDB . Second PEF in the tourist destination plays a negative role in moderating the relationship between tourists EDBI and EDB that is PEF are hygiene factors for tourists environmental behaviour . Study results suggest management policies for public environmental facilities in tourist destinations and highlight the importance of tourists psychological factors on long term sustainability of tourist destinations .

@highlight We introduced public environmental facilities to environmental behaviour research.
@highlight Tourists psychological factors can influence their environmental behaviour.
@highlight Public environmental facilities are hygiene factors for environmental behaviour.
