 Habitat banking has gained traction in recent years as a means to compensate for the unavoidable environmental impacts of development projects through the exchange of so called biodiversity offsets . Analyses of the ideological foundations and operational challenges of habitat banking exist but there has been far less scholarship on the policy processes leading to the establishment of such schemes . Habitat banking is a controversial policy instrument which has encountered opponents and proponents in most places where it has been implemented . Drawing on semi structured interviews and participant observation conducted from 2014 to 2018 we analyse the development of habitat banking policy in Spain . We show who was included or excluded from the policy making process and we highlight the arguments put forward by different actors to contest or support habitat banking more generally . We show that the process was opaque and non inclusive driven by a small constituency of actors who sought to create investment opportunities for biodiversity conservation on private lands and was grounded on a false social consensus which concealed alternative understandings of how environmental impacts should be addressed . We also demonstrate that the current delay in producing the guidelines can be explained by three circumstances . First habitat banking was challenged by many civil society groups on the grounds of its market based character . Second necessary data was not available or accurate enough to devise effective habitat banks with ecological metrics involved in quantifying offsets seen as too subjective . And third key implementation actors lacked capacity and political will . The Spanish standstill highlights the struggles and difficulties that even well resourced states can face when establishing rules for habitat banking and the trade in biodiversity offsets .

@highlight The legal grounding for habitat banking in Spain is well established in national legislation.
@highlight Developing the guidelines for habitat banking implementation has been a haphazard process with few actors involved and currently at a standstill.
@highlight Habitat banking has been challenged by many civil society groups on the grounds of its market based approach and complicated procedures.
@highlight Habitat banking might be difficult to implement given the lack of ecological data technical skills and political willingness.
@highlight The Spanish case illustrates that even well resourced states can fail to implement market based conservation.
