 The coastal risk assessment has important implications for policy development resilience enhancement and risk reduction to reduce the magnitude and likelihood of future losses to coastal hazards . However few if any existing in practice CRA approaches account for the effects of coastal natural habitats which shield communities from natural hazards and support resilience enhancement in coastal regions . Here we use a coupled human nature system based CRA framework to provide evidence on the influence of CNHs on coastal storm risk levels and spatial distributions . We calculate a risk index for each coastal county along the U.S. Atlantic coast and employ different spatial assessment approaches to systematically analyse the risk . This index incorporates several bio geo physical variables and data on socio ecological systems . The index is calculated under two CNH scenarios and is further used for mapping the at risk population . We find that the without habitat scenario overestimates the population in the highest risk category by 10 and the number of counties by as much as 40 as compared to the with habitat scenariomostly in the Gulf region . Also the without habitat scenario miscalculates the spatial distribution of the risk . These findings highlight the role of CNHs to provide defensive services and the importance of incorporating CNHs into the risk assessment process . While the CNHs inclusive risk results are important for coastal risk reduction through prioritization and smart resource allocation the well evident influence of CNHs on risk level and its distribution is also supportive for conservationists to stress the policies relevant to the protection and restoration of coastal natural systems owing to their multiple services .

@highlight This study advances the in practice traditional CRA frameworks through the incorporation of CNHs into risk assessment.
@highlight Empirical evidence on the influence of CNHs on risk level and its spatial patterns is provided.
@highlight The results show significant difference in risk level and its geographical distribution under the two scenarios.
@highlight The CNHs exclusive CRA overestimates the population in the highest risk category by 10 and number of counties by 40 .
@highlight The findings highlight the importance of CNHs and the need of incorporating CNHs into CRA.
