 Graded foams show great potential in impact protection and blast resistance applications but a limited experimental study on their compressive behavior has been reported . Thus this paper investigates the gradient effect on the compressive behavior of foams experimentally and numerically . The cell size graded foam and the cell wall thickness graded foam are both built by the Voronoi method and then fabricated by the additive manufacturing technique . Meanwhile uniform foams with different cell sizes and cell wall thicknesses are also produced to be compared with graded foams . Quasi static and dynamic compressive tests are conducted respectively by using a universal testing device and a direct impact Hopkinson pressure bar . Experimental results reveal that SGFs deform continuously from lower to higher density regions and hence possess a gradually increasing plateau stage in the stress strain curve . TGFs show three stepwise plateau stages because of their three layers with different cell wall thicknesses . Moreover SUFs and TUFs with constant relative density present similar mechanical properties despite their different cell morphologies . Several empirical formulae are proposed for uniform foams and fit well with experimental data . Further simulation is verified by experimental results and indicates that TGFs with adequate layers also possess a gradually increasing plateau stage just like SGFs . It means that the strength of each layer in a graded foam depends on its local density rather than cell morphology .

@highlight This paper studies the effects of cell size vs. cell wall thickness gradients on compressive response of foams.
@highlight Cell size graded foams show an increasing plateau stage while cell wall thickness graded foams exhibit stepwise stages.
@highlight Uniform foams with constant relative density show similar stress strain curves despite different cell morphologies.
@highlight Four power law empirical formulae are built to describe the mechanical properties of uniform foams.
@highlight The strength of each layer in a graded foam depends on its local relative density rather than cell morphology.
