 Low medium temperature phase change materials act as a predominant role in one sun solar thermal energy conversion and storage attracting increasing attention in recent years . However highly thermal conductive PCMs relying on the doping of a high dose of thermally conductive particles would limit the light absorption just at its top surface and decrease its bulk thermal storage density . In this work we designed a volumetric solar absorber integrated with a D Mannitol based PCM loaded with a low concentration of acetylene black nanoparticles other than a high concentration of over 5wt . Such a method maintains a high phase change enthalpy of DM while achieving an enhanced heat transfer and hence a uniform temperature distribution . Compared to conventional surface absorbers with PCM the volumetric absorber significantly reduces the temperature difference inside the bulk materials from 103.1C of the surface absorber to 62.7C of the volumetric absorber with a thickness of 10mm . Their photo to thermal charge and discharge performance was investigated for the first time in their based solar thermoelectric generator system which show that the volumetric absorber could reach 198.2C on bottom of the PCM and the corresponding open circuit voltage is 0.65V . Such performance data are significantly better than the corresponding results from the surface absorber of 135.1C and 0.45V respectively demonstrating successfully the significant performance enhancement by our volumetric absorber . This paper definitely deepens our understanding of volumetric absorbers and their based device design and applications in solar thermal electricity systems .

@highlight A volumetric solar absorber with energy storage function was obtained by cheap D mannitol and acetylene black nanoparticles.
@highlight The absorption of D Mannitol DM with 0.05 acetylene black can reach over 90 far more than that of pure DM of 41.86 .
@highlight The optical properties of both pure and doped DM were for the first time characterized in both solid and molten states.
@highlight Compared with the surface absorption SA the volumetric absorption VA has a great advantage in photo thermal conversion.
@highlight In the solar thermal electric generation system the VA has better power generation performance than the SA.
