 Reflective coating for cool pavement is one of the most effective ways to reduce pavement temperature save energy improve human thermal comfort and mitigate surface urban heat island effect . However combined natural weathering condition affect the optical properties of reflective cool pavement coatings and often cause performance deterioration over time . Besides natural weathering exposure experiment often costs long periods and leads to poor comparison . Thus there is an urgent need to develop a reliable evaluation method of accelerated weathering experiment and investigate the effect of weathering on the performance of coatings . This study determines the accelerated weathering periods through the combined accelerated factor calculation considering single factor of temperature moisture and ultraviolet radiation . Ten types of reflective cool pavement coatings contained three different anti aging additives with the initial reflectance of 40 75 were prepared . The optical properties color space and chemical reactions of them before and during the accelerated process were explored . This study yields a total reflectance change of white coatings by less than 10 and that of colored coatings by less than 5 which is mainly related to yellowness and fading . Reflective cool pavement coatings in light colors are more likely to be weathering aged . The variation of lightness and optical properties is still in a linear relationship during the weathering process . Finally coatings with 2 ZnO in nanoparticle sizes could effectively slow down the degradation of chain scission reactions and thus improve the durability of reflective coatings .

@highlight Accelerated weathering factor parameters and periods are assessed.
@highlight Effects of weathering on optical characteristics of coatings are evaluated.
@highlight Lightness and optical properties are linearly varied over aging period.
@highlight Degradation of carbonyls causes aging of reflective coatings.
@highlight Nano ZnO performs better anti aging function on the optical properties of coatings.
