 Research in the field of solar cells is generally based on balancing the trade off between high absorption in thicker and efficient carrier extraction in thinner samples . Nanoparticle assisted forward scattering of the sunlight results in an artificial thickness increase for the absorption while keeping the carrier extraction thickness at its initial optimal value . According to the BeerLambert law where thickness and absorption coefficients are placed alongside thickness variations can be assumed as absorption shifts . In this study by proposing a model based on the calculation of the effective thicknesses we arrive at a relation for the modified absorption coefficient . Scattering efficiency and angular distribution for metallic nanoparticles with different geometrical shapes are calculated . It is shown that pyramidal cubical and cylindrical nanoparticles offer higher Mie scattering efficiency and forward scattering ratio than those of spherical and triangular shapes . As an application non fullerene absorber of PTQ IDIC with lower absorption below 500nm is chosen to evaluate the capability of forward scattering nanoparticles for efficiency enhancements . Our studies are conducted through fitting experimental results of this absorber by the Drift Diffusion equations . Other than optimizing the shape cross section aspect and covering ratio of the introduced nanoparticles we demonstrate that the back contact reflectivity plays an essential role after scattering the sunlight into the absorber layer . Finally it is demonstrated that metallic particles located in the buffer layer reduce the optimal thickness of the sample enabling fabrication of thinner solar cells .

@highlight A model is presented for absorption enhancement by scattering nanoparticles.
@highlight Results are fitted to the experiments by Drift Diffusion equations.
@highlight Aspect and covering ratios of the nanoparticles are studied.
@highlight The essential role of back contact reflectivity is shown for scattering particles.
@highlight Nanoparticles in the buffer layer enable fabrication of thinner solar cells.
