 Combining hybrid photovoltaic thermal and photovoltaic phase change material systems in a so called hybrid PV T PCM system is a potential solution for the high temperature gradients and unsatisfactory thermal regulation in conventional PV T systems . Several combinations of different PCMs and different types of nanomaterials at different loadings are employed in this study to overcome the increased PV temperature levels in the presence of a PCM and improve both the cooling and the thermal regulation of hybrid systems . A finite difference numerical model was developed and validated to evaluate the average PV panel temperature the temperature gain across the cooling fluid the thermal and electrical efficiencies and the temperature distribution along the PV panel for the hybrid PV T nano enhanced PCM system . The effects of the solar concentration and the operation season were also assessed . Four types of PCMs and four nanoparticle materials were used at high loadings of 10wt 20wt and 30wt . When paraffin wax RT35 is used as the PCM although the temperature increasing magnitude along the panel decreases from 41 to 12 PV temperature levels increase compared to the conventional PV T system . Increasing the loading of nanoparticles in a PCM provides better cooling and improved overall performance . Among the nanomaterials Multi walled carbon nanotube is the best to obtain better cooling and higher overall performance . Also the addition of nanoparticles is more effective at higher solar concentrations . The CaCl

@highlight First to study effect of multiple nanoPCM mixtures on the performance and thermal regulation of hybrid PV T nanoPCM system.
@highlight High nanoparticles loadings up to 30wt are applied for the first time in this study.
@highlight CaCl
@highlight .6H
@highlight O provides better thermal and electrical performance while RT35 provides better thermal regulation.
@highlight Multi walled carbon nanotube is the best nanomaterial to obtain better cooling and higher performance.
@highlight Addition of nanomaterials to the PCM is more effective at high solar concentrations.
