 Photovoltaic backsheets provide critical moisture mechanical and electrical insulation to the backside of PV modules but their continued functionality depends upon their ability to remain well adhered over years of harsh environmental exposure . A study of adhesive strength was conducted on several PV backsheet types exposed to indoor accelerated weathering . Two adhesion tests the wedge test and single cantilever beam test were used to measure adhesion energy in four backsheets two with fluoropolymer based outer layers polyvinyl fluoride polyvinylidene fluoride and two with non fluoropolymer based outer layerspolyamide and polyethylene terephthalate . The effects of changes in temperature ultraviolet irradiance relative humidity and a periodic water spray were studied . The PET PVF and PVDF based backsheets all showed instances of debonding in an adhesive layer which is commonly reported . For the PA PET and PVDF based backsheets adhesion energy dropped fairly rapidly with exposure reaching very low levels by 4000h . The PVF based backsheet was relatively robust to weathering . Pull off of an outer chalking layer in the PA and PET based backsheets suggested a sensitivity to UV . Adhesion in these two backsheets was also highly sensitive to changes in moisture level . Changes in UV irradiance and temperature did not show a statistically significant effect on adhesion loss for the exposure levels used . The present work is part of a two part adhesion study on both field weathered and indoor exposed backsheets and forms a basis for understanding adhesion degradation across a variety of backsheet types and degradation factors .

@highlight Four indoor exposed backsheet types were adhesion tested using two different methods.
@highlight Adhesion in the PVF based backsheet was relatively stable.
@highlight The PA PET and PVDF based backsheets exhibited substantial decrease after 4000 hours.
@highlight The PA and PET based backsheets exhibited sensitivity to changes in moisture level.
@highlight The PET PVF and PVDF based backsheets all exhibited debonding in an adhesive layer.
