 Satellites in lower earth orbits have been primarily powered by photovoltaic modules . With growing power demand for new satellite concepts solar cells are required to be flexible and ultra lightweight to decrease launch costs . CIGS thin film solar technology is a promising candidate since it can be manufactured on flexible substrates and possesses high radiation hardness . Poor radiative properties of CIGS on the other hand lead to high temperatures and therefore power loss . High emissivity coatings on CIGS have already been reported but the influence on thermal and electrical aspects have not been addressed . Here we present the optical properties of silicon oxycarbonitride coatings and their effect on electrical parameters on CIGS cells to be used for the DLR s GoSolAr power sail mission . We show that the single layer coating can significantly increase emissivity from 0.3 to 0.72 with minimal spectral losses and negligible impact on the functioning of the underlying CIGS cell . We simulated the thermal impact of the coating on solar cells in orbit and can predict that the maximum temperature of the cells is reduced by 30C resulting in a significant power gain . Additionally the coating has an emissivity of 0.87 in the atmospheric window of 813m making it a very good passive radiative cooler for terrestrial solar cells . The low cost coating can replace glass and the process can be scaled up for large CIGS modules . The coating can also significantly increase the power to mass ratio of solar modules reducing costs for space applications .

@highlight A single layer coating for passive radiative cooling of CIGS cells in space is presented.
@highlight A 3.2m flexible SiCNO coating increases infrared emissivity of CIGS from 0.3 to 0.72
@highlight Nominal spectral losses and no adverse impact on electrical performance of CIGS.
@highlight Resonance vibration of various polymeric bonds increases radiative output by 123 .
@highlight The coating decreases cell temperature by 30C in LEO and increases P
@highlight by 27 .
