 The collecting energy from solar radiation using phase change materials is significant in the field of thermal storage . In the current work a novel MWCNT modified hydrate salt poly copolymer hydrogel form stable composite PCM was well prepared using mechanical mixing method . The form stable ability microstructure heat storage capacity thermal stability and thermal cycling reliability of the prepared MWCNT GS PAAS were investigated . The leakage experiment exhibited that the MWCNT GS PAAS containing 7wt PAAS can maintain original gel structure without leakage in melting state of hydrate salt . Moreover scanning electron microscopy was used to demonstrate that the hydrate salt PCM was coated with densified hydrogel film . ATR FTIR and Raman spectra results indicated that the hydrate salt PCM was encapsulated successfully within the network gel structure . Differential scanning calorimetry suggested that the MWCNT GS PAAS composite possessed good thermal storage capacity of which the latent heat reached up to 187.2J g. Thermal gravimetric analysis indicated that the retention ratio of the crystal water in MWCNT GS PAAS is as high as 64.8wt at the temperature where the Glauber s salt completely dehydrated . The heat transfer performance suggested that the thermal conductivity and thermal diffusivity of the MWCNT GS PAAS composite increased by 141.7 and 167.1 compared with those of the pure GS . Furthermore being subjected to 500 thermal cycles the prepared composite maintained favorable thermal and chemical stability . The obtained results indicated MWCNT GS PAAS composite was an outstanding candidate used for solar energy storage systems .

@highlight The crisscrossed gel network is an efficient approach to encapsulate hydrate salt PCMs.
@highlight The interaction of GS and PAAS as well as GS and MWCNT greatly improves thermal stability.
@highlight A narrow temperature range of heat absorption indicates the reduced temperature fluctuations.
@highlight MWCNT GS PAAS maintains favorable thermal and chemical stability after 500 thermal cycles.
