 Commercially available lightweight flexible CIGS solar cells are investigated under the Low Intensity Low Temperature conditions that exist at Mars Jupiter and Saturn . Current density voltage measurements concentrated solar and external quantum efficiency measurements are performed under varying temperatures and illumination intensities to determine the applicability and performance of flexible CIGS in outer planetary conditions . The well known metastability of the CIGS absorber is observed as a result of a barrier to minority carrier extraction at the CIGS CdS interface under higher intensity illumination . However despite the low temperatures and low intensities experienced in deeper space the presence of this barrier does not significantly affect the performance of the solar cells under LILT conditions . This is attributed to the lower photogeneration rate of carriers particularly at conditions relative to Saturn and Jupiter which appears to be less than the thermionic emission rate across the barrier and therefore the carrier extraction is relatively unaffected under these illumination conditions . At elevated temperatures and or intensities such as at AM0 and conditions relative to Mars however the higher carrier generation rate results in the appearance of large series resistance and a significant loss of fill factor at irradiation levels greater than 1 sun AM0 . Proton irradiation of the solar cells systematically reduces the performance predominately through the formation of defect states in the absorber layer the presence of which is increasingly more prohibitive in LILT conditions due to the low thermal energy of the minority carriers and the subsequent increased effect of SRH recombination .

@highlight Commercially available CIGS solar cells are investigated under LILT conditions.
@highlight The metastability of the CIGS results in a barrier to minority carrier extraction.
@highlight The presence of this barrier does not affect the performance in LILT conditions.
@highlight CIGS solar cells operate with a higher power conversion efficiency in LILT.
@highlight Proton irradiation of the CIGS reduces the performance via defects.
