 Chemical and physical stress weathering organic and inorganic matter deposition and microbial growth over time or aging affect the optical radiative performance of building envelope materials . Natural exposure helps to quantify these effects but it usually requires several years . Further the contribution of the different degradation agents can not be isolated and results from different campaigns can not be easily compared because of the variability in the boundary conditions producing aging . Here we present an adaptation of the protocol implemented by ASTM as D7897 18 Standard Practice for Laboratory Soiling and Weathering of Roofing Materials to Simulate Effects of Natural Exposure on Solar Reflectance and Thermal Emittance . The aim is to reproduce in the laboratory the changes in albedo and thermal emittance experienced by building envelope materials in European urban areas rather than in the United States . We tuned the spraying duration and weathering cycles and we compared the UVvisNIR reflectances of naturally aged specimens of roofing and wall finish materials to those exposed to laboratory weathering and soiling . Excluding those materials that show early physical chemical degradation the mean absolute deviation between natural and laboratory exposure of roofing products is equal to 0.027 in albedo . This is a lower value than the differences between two natural exposure campaigns at the same site . We clearly defined the limits of application of the protocol providing an appraisal of the repeatability of natural aging . Moreover we identified possible improvements in the methodology to conduct both natural and laboratory exposure .

@highlight We selected sixteen roofing and four wall finish products.
@highlight We naturally aged them for four years in Rome and Milan and exposed them in the lab.
@highlight The mean absolute albedo difference natural lab of roofing products is 0.027
@highlight ASTM
@highlight can be adapted to mimic weathering and soiling out of the U.S.A.
@highlight We identified possible improvements to natural aging and lab exposure practices.
