 Photocatalysis is a well established and green technology with cost effective high performance and environment benign for tetracycline removal in wastewater . Recently HAp based materials have been proved to be cheap and green photocatalysts for wastewater pollutant treatment . However the photocatalytic removal efficiency of these existing HAp based materials is still not desirable . Herein a series of new porous hollow hydroxyapatite microspheres decorated with small amounts of reduced graphene oxides were firstly and successfully fabricated by a facile hydrothermal method . The as prepared RGO HAp composites were characterized by X ray diffraction field emission scanning electron microscopy ultravioletvisible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy X ray photoelectron spectroscopy Brunauer Emmett Teller and photoelectrochemical measurements . Furthermore their photocatalytic applications were investigated by using TC as a model contaminant . It turned out that the as prepared RGO HAp composite exhibits an outstanding photocatalytic activity for TC degradation under a 300W xenon lamp with full spectrum irradiation . Note that its adsorption efficiency for TC in dark period was only 7.9 after 30min . Thus the total removal efficiency for TC was nearly 100 . Furthermore the as prepared RGO HAp exhibited remarkable stability and repeatability demonstrating its promising potential as an efficient photocatalyst . A plausible photocatalytic reaction mechanism was proposed on the basis of electron spin resonance and trapping experiments . This fundamental research will provide a promising strategy for developing highly efficient and compatible photocatalysts with wide applications .

@highlight A series of unique structured RGO HAp composites were firstly fabricated.
@highlight These materials work as outstanding photocatalysts for TC degradation.
@highlight Decorating amount of RGO is critical to optimizing removal efficiency.
@highlight Photocatalytic degradation pathway for TC was proposed.
