 This driving simulator study compared drivers eye movements during a series of lane changes which required different levels of motor control for their execution . Participants completed 12 lane changing manoeuvres in three drives categorised by degree of manual engagement with the driving task Fully Manual Drive Manual Intervention Required Fully Automated Drive . For Partial automation drivers resumed control from the automated system and changed lane manually . For Full automation the automated system managed the lane change but participants initiated the manoeuvre by pulling the indicator lever . Results were compared to the Manual drive condition where drivers controlled the vehicle at all times . For each driving condition lane changing was initiated by drivers at their discretion in response to a slow moving lead vehicle which entered their lane . Failure to change lane did not result in a collision . To understand how different motor control requirements affected driver visual attention eye movements to the road centre and drivers vertical and horizontal gaze dispersion were compared during different stages of the lane change manoeuvre for the three drives . Results showed that drivers attention to the road centre was generally lower for drives with less motor control requirements especially when they were not engaged in the lane change process . However as drivers moved closer to the lead vehicle and prepared to change lane the pattern of eye movements to the road centre converged regardless of whether drivers were responsible for the manual control of the lane change . While there were no significant differences in horizontal gaze dispersion between the three drives vertical dispersion for the two levels of automation was quite different with higher dispersion during Partial automation which was due to a higher reliance on the HMI placed in the centre console .

@highlight Levels of automation were used to control the motor control requirements needed from drivers to perform the given task.
@highlight Drivers have a more dispersed gaze with lesser motor control. However as they prepare for the lane change their gaze pattern tends to converge.
@highlight Drivers gaze behaviour during an automated lane change is similar to the one described on previous literature for manual lane changes.
@highlight Transitions of control made drivers look to the instrument cluster suggesting a need for system status information.
