 Courtship displays have been traditionally considered stereotyped behaviours . Many elaborate courtships are displayed in specific locations or in courts prepared by the displaying individuals . Sudden environmental events may alter the spatial structure of the displaying site and individuals should be able to cope with such disruptions . In some mating systems courtship is the only or main trait used in mate choice . This is the case in lek mating systems where male mating success is highly skewed and intense sexual selection may drive the evolution of elaborate courtship . The golden collared manakin is a lekking species of the Neotropical forests . Males have an elaborate courtship display that includes a series of acrobatic jumps within a court delimited by small saplings . The courtship ends with a jump on one of the saplings called the mating sapling which invites the female to copulate . The display of each male follows a consistent routine that males establish at the beginning of the reproductive season . We hypothesized that males possess behavioural flexibility to adapt their courtship behaviour to unpredictable environmental changes . We investigated the effects of a sudden disruption of the court configuration by placing a piece of bark on the mating sapling . Males gradually established a new display sequence with an alternative mating sapling demonstrating a high level of behavioural flexibility that suggests the involvement of motor learning . When the bark was removed some males reverted to the original sequence showing retention of the original display sequence . Our study provides evidence for the involvement of motor learning in the establishment and adjustment of elaborate courtship displays .

@highlight Male manakins modify their courtship after alteration of their court.
@highlight The gradual change of the courtship sequence indicates motor learning.
@highlight Some birds deploy the original sequence after court structure is restored.
@highlight Elaborate courtship appears to be established and adjusted through motor learning.
