 Eco safe driving is a promising approach to improve road safety while reducing transport emissions . The application of an eco safe driving system is feasible with the support of vehicle to vehicle infrastructure technologies . To guarantee system usability and safety appropriateness a key precondition is to ensure that driver mental workload and visual demands required for using the system are reasonable . This study explored how drivers mental workload and visual demands were affected when driving with an eco safe driving HMI . Four in vehicle eco safe HMI information conditions were evaluated including baseline advice only feedback only and advice feedback . Two traffic scenarios were simulated using an advanced driving simulator . Behavioural variables visual variables and subjective workload scores were collected from 36 licensed Australian drivers . The experiment results showed that the HMI prompted drivers to apply a smooth and stable brake force when they approached the intersection and a smooth acceleration when they left the intersection . Drivers mental workload indicated by visual measurements were consistent with their subjective reported workload levels . Drivers had a higher mental workload when they received and processed additional eco safe information in the advice feedback condition . An increase in mental workload induced by the in vehicle cognitive task initiated more blink activities while the increase in visual demand caused by a complex road situation led to blink inhibition . The study shows the HMI could significantly promote eco safe driving behaivours without causing excessive mental and visual workload of drivers .

@highlight Mental workload and visual demand when using an eco safe HMI system were studied.
@highlight Blink variables and pupil size in different eco safe HMI conditions were analysed.
@highlight The use of HMI system increased mental workload but within a reasonable level.
@highlight High visual demand induced by road environment could lead to blink inhibition.
@highlight Blink measures can be used as valid mental workload and visual demand indicators.
