 The Automated Enforcement System has become the most important traffic enforcement system in China . In this study a spatio temporal kernel density estimation model integrating spatio temporal statistics and three dimensional visualization techniques was applied to reveal the spatial and temporal patterns of traffic violation behavior at urban intersections . The multivariate Gaussian kernel function was selected for space and time density estimation as it has been shown to be a good arbitrary probability density function for continuous multivariate data . Because the STKDE model builds a space time cube that adopts different colors of voxels to visualize the density of traffic violations an optimal bandwidth selector that combines unconstrained pilot bandwidth matrices with a data driven method was selected for achieving the best visualization result . The raw AES traffic violation data over 200 weekdays from 69 intersections in the city of Wujiang were empirically analyzed . The results show that the STKDE space time cube made it easier to detect the spatio temporal patterns of traffic violations than did the traditional hotspots map . An interesting finding was that traffic sign violations and traffic marking violations were primarily concentrated not in regular peak hours but during the time period of 14 00 16 00 which indicates that these intersections were the most congested during this period . Primarily the STKDE model identified seven patterns of spatio temporal traffic violation hotspots and coldspots . These results are important because their prediction of temporal trends of traffic violations may help contribute toward the understanding and improvement of intersection safety problems .

@highlight A Spatio temporal Kernel Density Estimation is applied to reveal the space and time patterns of traffic violation behavior.
@highlight The traffic violation data comes from the Automated Enforcement System at 69 intersections.
@highlight An optimal bandwidth selector that combines unconstrained pilot bandwidth matrices with a data driven method.
@highlight The STKDE model identified seven patterns of spatio temporal traffic violation hotspots and coldspots.
