 In this paper the potential of using Augmented Reality technology to improve the safety of pedestrian crossings was tested by means of virtual information provided to a driver approaching a zebra crossing area . To achieve this objective a driving simulator study was carried out . The effectiveness of the system was tested and the results of the developed simulation tests with and without AR warning to inform the driver of a pedestrian crossing ahead were compared . Specifically AR warnings were tested under two different situations a visible pedestrian crossing the roadway and a non visible pedestrian made invisible by certain obstacles and who is about to cross the roadway . Two different virtual warnings were tested in both cases on a sample of forty six participants a flashing red arrow above the pedestrian and the same visual warning but with an additional audible warning system . The effects of the audible warnings were studied by comparing the driving performances and surrogate safety measures and Time to Zebra with those recorded under reference conditions . Positive effects of AR were observed . Specifically when the AR warnings were activated drivers started to decelerate well before the pedestrian crossing with a low deceleration rate and high TTC and TTZ . This study confirmed the great benefits that AR and connected vehicle technologies could bring to the overall safety conditions on the road network especially under risky situations and difficult maneuvers . The driving simulator is certainly an effective solution for studying and evaluating such technologies as well as studying their impact on driving performance .

@highlight Data crashes show that more than 280 000 victims of road crashes are pedestrians.
@highlight The majority of road crashes are caused by poor driver oversight of road users.
@highlight Augmented Reality technology could enable future systems to detect dangers earlier.
@highlight Several AR video and audio warnings are tested in a driving simulator study.
@highlight AR effectiveness in improving the safety of pedestrian crossings is demonstrated.
