 Considerable interindividual variation in behaviour including learning ability and personality exists within populations . Recent research has suggested that these two traits might covary that is the expression of certain personality traits might be correlated with learning ability . We experimentally tested this hypothesis under controlled laboratory conditions using female Trinidadian guppies . We tested for individual learning performance measured as time to learn an association between a physical object and the presentation of food both without and with public information from conspecifics . Further we quantified three ecologically relevant personality traits in individual fish in a fixed sequence namely exploration of a novel environment sociability as the tendency to associate socially with conspecifics and boldness in the face of a simulated threat of predation . Each of these three personality traits was significantly repeatable but they were not intercorrelated . Individuals that needed fewer trials to feed from the objects initially had a higher probability of reaching the learning criterion and needed fewer trials to do so but this learning performance was not related to repeatable personality traits across individuals . More exploratory individuals tended to learn faster during individual learning . When excluding individuals that had not learned more social individuals were significantly faster at associative learning during social learning than less social individuals . Overall we found no compelling evidence for any link between individual personality traits and learning performance nor between the two modes of learning . Our results therefore suggest that individual personality does not predict learning performance and the observed independence of the two modes of learning tested suggests a lack of a domain general learning capacity in female Trinidadian guppies at least under our experimental conditions .

@highlight Repeatable personality traits did not form a behavioural syndrome.
@highlight Individuals performed slightly better during individual than social learning.
@highlight Personality traits individual and social learning were independent of each other.
@highlight Personality had only a weak effect on learning performance.
