 This study investigates the impact that delta V the relative change in vehicle velocity pre and post crash has on the severity of motor vehicle collisions . We study injury severity using two metrics for each occupant the number of injuries suffered and the probability of suffering a serious or worse injury . We use a cross sectional set of generally representative MVC data between 2010 and 2015 as a basis for our research . Collision factors that influence the crash environment are combined with the injuries that were suffered in MVCs . The influence of delta V is captured using a mediation analysis whereby delta V acts as the focal point between crash factors and injury outcome . The mediation approach adds to existing research by presenting a detailed view of the relationship between injury severity delta V and other collision factors . We find evidence of competitive mediation wherein a collision factors positive association with injury severity is offset by a negative association with delta V. Neglecting to include delta V in our study would have let the factors association with injury severity go undiscovered . In addition certain collision factors are found to be related to injury severity solely because of delta V while others are found to have a significant impact regardless of delta V. Our results support the multitude of policy recommendations that promote seatbelt use and warn against alcohol impaired driving and support the proliferation of safety enabled vehicles whose technology can mitigate the bodily damage associated with detrimental crash types .

@highlight We examine the effect of motor vehicle collision MVC factors on the severity of injuries.
@highlight Two approaches are considered Log linear Regression and Bayesian Probit Regression.
@highlight delta V plays a primary role in determining the number of injuries and the probability of suffering an MAIS3 injury.
@highlight Some crash factors influence injury severity regardless of relative crash velocity delta V .
@highlight Mediation approach unveils influential links that would have otherwise gone unnoticed.
