 Stopping Sight Distance is the distance defined in most highway design guides as the distance required by drivers to safely come to a complete stop in case of an emergency . Accordingly design guides define theoretical values for SSD and recommend that these requirements are satisfied at all points along a highway corridor . SSD is estimated as a function of speed driver reaction time and deceleration rate which are all factors that vary by both driver and driving conditions . Despite the anticipated uncertainty in those variables they are all modelled deterministically . Unfortunately this is an inaccurate assumption and provides no information about the extent to which roads designed to meet SSD requirements are able to satisfy road user demand for SSD . Design guides also fail to provide information about the impact a segment that fails to meet driver needs has on safety . To overcome those limitations this paper assesses the ability of existing roads to satisfy stochastically modelled road user demand for SSD . The Available Sight Distance was first quantified for a group of top crash prone segments and a Monte Carlo Simulation was used to model demand for SSD . The proportion of the test highways that failed to meet driver demands for SSD was then quantified by comparing the ASD to the required SSD at different levels of driver demand . Furthermore the paper also compares the safety performance between regions that meet SSD and those that fail to do so . Among other findings the paper shows that on average 6.8 of the length of the test segments are noncompliant to the SSD demands of 70 of the driving population . On the other hand the average percent noncompliance for 30 of the driving population was 12.1 . It was also found that on average crash rates in the noncompliant regions were two to three times higher than those in the compliant regions at the 70 level .

@highlight Stopping Sight Distance SSD demands on crash prone roads are stochastically modelled.
@highlight A LiDAR based assessment is used to quantify Available Sight Distance on the roads.
@highlight The ability of existing roads to satisfy SSD is analysed at different levels of demand.
@highlight 6.8 of the length of the roadways were noncompliant to the demands of 70 of drivers.
@highlight Crash rates in noncompliant regions were 23 times higher than in compliant regions.
