 The safety of signalized intersections has traditionally been evaluated at an aggregate level by relating historical collision records for several years to the annual trac volume and the geometric characteristics of the intersection . This is a reactive and macroscopic approach that gives little insight into how important dynamic signal cycle related variables can affect intersection safety such as the arrival type and the shock wave characteristics . The objective of this study is to develop traffic conflict based real time safety models for signalized intersections using several state of the art techniques . Traffic conflicts were measured by multiple indicators including time to collision modified time to collision and deceleration rate to avoid collision . Traffic conflict rate was employed as independent variable while traffic volume queue length shock wave area shock wave speed and platoon ratio of each cycle were used as covariates in the safety models . Four candidate Tobit models were developed and compared under the Bayesian framework conventional Tobit model grouped random parameters Tobit model random intercept Tobit model and random parameters Tobit model . The results showed that the GRP Tobit model performs best with lowest Deviance Information Criteria indicating that accounting for the unobserved heterogeneity across sites can significantly improve the model fit . The model estimation results showed that higher conflict rates were associated with various shock wave characteristics and higher traffic volume . Lower conflict rates were related with higher platoon ratio . The developed models can have potential applications in real time safety evaluation real time optimization of signal control and connected and autonomous vehicles trajectories planning .

@highlight Conflict based real time safety performance functions are developed for signalized intersections.
@highlight Several Tobit models including GRP Tobit RI Tobit and GRP Tobit models are compared.
@highlight Traffic volume queue length shock wave speed and area and the platoon ratio are used as covariates.
@highlight Higher conflict rates were associated with shock wave area and speed and higher traffic volume.
@highlight Lower conflict rates were related with higher platoon ratio.
