 There has been no scarcity in the literature of suggested antecedents of employee safety behavior and this paper brings together the disaggregated antecedents of safety behavior in the construction field . In total 101 eligible empirical articles are obtained . Bibliometric and context analyses are combined to identify the influential journals scholars keywords use of theory research methods and countries or regions of the empirical samples . The 83 factors that are identified are divided into five groups namely individual characteristics workgroup interactions work and workplace design project management and organization and family industry and society . This indicates that the causes of safety behavior are manifold . Various factors from different systems likely work in concert to create situations in which an individual chooses to comply with safety rules and participate voluntarily in safety activities . Given this we propose that safety behavior is only an ostensible symptom of more complex The SelfWorkHomeIndustry Society systems and establish a safety behavior antecedent analysis and classification model . Based on this model we develop a resource flow model illustrating why how and when the flow of resources between the five systemsnamely the self system work system home system workhome interface system and industry society systemeither promotes or inhibits safety behavior . The safety behavior antecedent analysis and classification model and resource flow model are based mainly on bioecological system theory and resources theories . Avenues for future theoretical development and method designs are suggested based on the reviewed findings and the two conceptual models . The intention with this systematic review together with the two integrated conceptual models is to advance theoretical thinking on how safety behavior can be promoted or instead inhibited .

@highlight A review of the research on antecedents of safety behavior in construction.
@highlight From 101 empirical articles eighty three factors in five groups are identified.
@highlight Propose a safety behavior antecedent analysis and classification model.
@highlight Propose a safety behavior resource flow model.
@highlight Bibliometric analysis and content analysis are used.
