 Delivery riders an occupation that has emerged from Chinas booming E commerce industry have attracted widespread attention due to their red light running and high accident rates . This study aimed to utilize the theory of planned behavior to investigate the psychological characteristics of delivery riders RLR intentions . A survey questionnaire was designed to collect data including information regarding the extended variables the basic components of the TPB and demographic characteristics . The survey was conducted in Xi an and 228 complete questionnaires were collected . Structural equation modeling was used to examine the data and a multiple group analysis of the demographic variables was conducted . The results showed that the expanded TPB model had a better model fit and higher variance explanation than the original TPB model . Extended constructs i.e . conformity tendency and the traffic environment were significant predictors and attitude was the strongest predictor of all the examined variables related to RLR intentions . Finally the path parameters of the expended TPB model were adapted for different demographic groups and some differential effects were also found . These results could provide a basis for the design of intervention measures and safety education schemes by delivery platforms and traffic management departments to reduce RLR behavior among delivery riders .

@highlight The theory of planned behavior was used to investigate the behavior of delivery riders running red lights.
@highlight The structural equation model was used to predict delivery riders running red lights.
@highlight Attitude conformity tendency and the traffic environment were significant predictors in the modified TPB model.
@highlight The results of multiple group analysis show that differences between the means of psychological variables of different population groups.
@highlight Some intervention measures are obtained by analyzing the influencing factors of running red lights.
