 Norwegian authorities encourage people to commute by bicycle to improve public health decrease rush hour traffic jams and reduce pollution . However increasing the number of bicyclists especially in the rush hour traffic may increase the number of serious bicycle injuries . To explore trends in hospitalized bicycle injuries at a Norwegian level I trauma centre during the last decade . Data was extracted from the prospectively registered institutional trauma registry . We identified patients admitted after bicycle injuries between 2005 and 2016 . A total of 1543 patients were identified . Median age was 40 years and 73 were males . The majority of weekday injuries occurred in the morning and during the afternoon rush hour peaking at 8 am . and 4 pm . The annual number of admitted bicycle injuries increased from 79 to 184 during the study period . Also an increase in the share of bicyclists using helmets was observed . The median Injury Severity Score of 10 remained unchanged . 63 had serious trauma while 34 suffered severe trauma . The absolute number of both serious and severe trauma increased annually . 36 had head and neck injuries while 16 had chest injuries graded with Abbreviated Injury Scale 3 . Loss of consciousness with Glasgow Coma Scale score 9 was seen in 7 . Median length of hospitalization was 3 days and 39 had surgery in one or more body regions . The 30 day mortality was 2.3 . The number of admitted bicycle injuries to our trauma centre is increasing . Rush hour injuries dominate during weekdays . Bicycle injuries can be devastating and deserve more public attention to promote road safety .

@highlight The number of admitted bicyclists to Oslo University Hospital increased 2.5 times from 2005 to 2016.
@highlight The most common mechanism of injury were single bicycle crashes which made up two thirds of all injuries.
@highlight The age distribution showed two peaks one for in the early teens and one for adults starting at 20 years and tapering off towards 70 years of age.
@highlight Most bicycle injuries occurred during week day rush hours.
@highlight An increasing trend in the use of helmets was observed during the study period despite no federal legislation.
