 Exposure measures are always among the explanatory variables of any crash model . Regardless of the technique used to model crash the mean crash frequency will increase with an increase in exposure since more crashes are likely to occur at higher exposure . For cyclist vehicle crash models bike and vehicle exposure measures are essential for an accurate and reliable estimate of the cyclist crash risk . However traffic exposure measures are an example of variables that are measured with error . Generally measurement error in regression estimates has three effects 1 produce bias in parameter estimation for statistical models 2 lead to a loss of explanation power 3 mask important features of the data . This study proposes a full Bayesian Poisson Lognormal crash models that account for measurement error in traffic exposure measures . The underlying approach is to adjust the traffic exposure measures for measurement error to improve the accuracy of the crash model and crash model estimates . The full Bayesian models are developed using data for 134 traffic analysis zones in the city of Vancouver Canada . The results show that Poisson Lognormal models that account for measurement error have a better fit for the modeled cyclist vehicle crash data compared to traditional Poisson Lognormal models . The estimates of the Poisson Lognormal model that accounts for measurement error are consistent with traditional Poisson Lognormal models estimates except for the BKT and VKT estimates . Estimates of the BKT and VKT increased after introducing measurement error which indicates an underestimation to BKT and VKT estimates in case of overlooking measurement error .

@highlight Full Bayesian Poisson Lognormal crash models are proposed to account for measurement error in traffic exposure.
@highlight Two models are proposed to account for the measurement error.
@highlight Measurement error models offered a better fit for the modeled cyclist vehicle crash data.
@highlight The coefficients of the bike and vehicle exposure increased after accounting for the measurement error.
