 Mitigation strategies for wildlife vehicle collisions require sufficient knowledge about why where and when collisions occur in order to be an efficient tool to improve public safety . Collisions with cervids are known to be influenced by spatial factors such as topography and forest cover . However temporal changes in animal and motorist behaviors are often overlooked although they can increase the odds of cervid vehicle collisions . Consequently we evaluated potential factors influencing the spatiotemporal distribution of 450 collisions with moose and white tailed deer that occurred between 1990 and 2015 along the 100 km long highway in southeastern Qubec Canada . Both spatial and temporal factors efficiently explained moose vehicle collisions but not collisions with white tailed deer suggesting that the latter occurred more randomly along the highway . The risk of moose vehicle collisions was mainly modulated by topographic and habitat variables as the interactions between slope and elevation and slope and distance to suitable moose habitats had a strong effect on collision risk . Road sinuosity and the proportion of mature coniferous stands around the collision site positively influenced deer vehicle collisions . A temporal increase in collision numbers was noted in different biological periods during which movement rates are known to be higher . These results suggest that cervid movement is the main factor influencing collision risk and frequency . Our results indicate that mitigation strategies aimed at decreasing the probability of collision with cervids must be species specific and should focus more closely on animal movement .

@highlight Both spatial and temporal factors efficiently explained moose vehicle collisions.
@highlight Collisions occurred more at night dusk and dawn for moose and white tailed deer.
@highlight Collisions occurred more in months during which cervid movement rate was higher.
@highlight We found an interaction between slope and elevation on collision risk with moose.
@highlight Road sinuosity and of mature coniferous stands increased collision risk with deer.
