 Increased cycling uptake can improve population health but barriers include real and perceived risks . Crash risk factors are important to understand in order to improve safety and increase cycling uptake . Many studies of cycling crash risk are based on combining diverse sources of crash and exposure data such as police databases and travel surveys based on shared geography and time . When conflating crash and exposure data from different sources the risk factors that can be quantified are only those variables common to both datasets which tend to be limited to geography and a few general road user characteristics . The Physical Activity through Sustainable Transport Approaches project was a prospective cohort study that collected both crash and exposure data from seven European cities . The goal of this research was to use data from the PASTA project to quantify exposure adjusted crash rates and model adjusted crash risk factors including detailed sociodemographic characteristics attitudes about transportation neighbourhood built environment features and location by city . We used negative binomial regression to model the influence of risk factors independent of exposure . Of the 4 180 cyclists 10.2 reported 535 crashes . We found that overall crash rates were 6.7 times higher in London the city with the highest crash rate relative to rebro the city with the lowest rate . Differences in overall crash rates between cities are driven largely by crashes that did not require medical treatment and that involved motor vehicles . In a parsimonious crash risk model we found higher crash risks for less frequent cyclists men those who perceive cycling to not be well regarded in their neighbourhood and those who live in areas of very high building density . Longitudinal collection of crash and exposure data can provide important insights into individual differences in crash risk . Substantial differences in crash risks between cities neighbourhoods and population groups suggest there is great potential for improvement in cycling safety .

@highlight Prospective cohort study of over four thousand cyclists in seven European cities.
@highlight Longitudinal crash and exposure data enable crash risk analysis at individual level.
@highlight Crash risks varied substantially by individual neighbourhood factors and city.
@highlight Participants who cycle more often had lower risk of a crash.
@highlight Gender social environment and building density were associated with crash risk.
