 Guardrail end terminals are designed to gradually decelerate vehicles during impact and protect vehicle occupants from severe injuries . It has been observed that some in service end terminals are damaged and it is unclear if their safety performance is still acceptable . The objectives of this study were to examine the conditions of in service end terminals and to evaluate the performance of damaged relative to undamaged end terminals in simulated impacts . Common damage patterns of guardrail end terminals were investigated by using post crash pictures collected from the National Automotive Sampling System Crashworthiness Data System . Conditions of in service end terminals mounted along roads in portions of six U.S. states were examined by using a sample from the second Strategic Highway Research Program Roadway Information Database . Finite Element models of two minorly and three severely damaged ET Plus systems a commonly used energy absorbing guardrail end terminal along U.S. roads were developed . To evaluate the performance of the damaged ET Plus systems we performed impact simulations with vehicle to damaged ET Plus models according to the National Cooperative Highway Research Program 350 test conditions 330 . Of the 1000 in service end terminal cases we investigated 73 were undamaged 18 had minor damage and 8 had major damage . Increases in the average vehicle deceleration rates maximum vehicle yaw angles and vehicle local deformations were observed in simulated impacts with damaged ET Plus end terminals relative to impacts with undamaged ET Plus end terminals . For one damaged ET Plus a secondary collision was observed . Overall we found that the damaged end terminals usually increased collision severity when compared with undamaged end terminals . The findings of this study point out the need for in service performance evaluations and proper maintenance and repair practices of end terminals . The simulation models developed in this study could be further employed to investigate device performance in crash situations that are physically impractical to test and investigate the effects of site characteristics on device performance . The simulation models could also supplement crash tests to certify new hardware designs .

@highlight Common damage patterns of guardrail end terminals were investigated by using post crash pictures collected from the NASS CDS.
@highlight Finite Element FE models of two minorly and three severely damaged ET Plus systems were developed.
@highlight Increasing avg. deceleration max yaw angles and deformations were observed in the vehicle models impacting damaged ET Plus.
@highlight It pointed out the need for in service performance evaluations and proper maintenance and repair practices of end terminals.
