 Pedestrian avoidance algorithms often tacitly assume that the maneuver which minimizes collisions will also be the safest maneuver . This work shows that this is not always the case when considering pedestrian fatalities . Given the unavoidable uncertainty in vehicle motion environmental parameters and pedestrian behavior emergency avoidance maneuvers often involve some chance of a collision . Maneuvers that aim to keep the vehicle as far away from the pedestrian as possible will theoretically minimize collisions but if this strategy is followed and a collision occurs nonetheless it will often be at a higher speed than would occur with alternative strategies . This is a result of the tires friction ellipse which enforces a constraint between steering versus braking for collision avoidance braking must be reduced if pedestrian clearance is to be maximized . This work shows that in some common pedestrian collision situations the net effect of this increase in vehicle speed for pure avoidance offsets the benefits of reducing collisions . Pedestrians if hit would be hit at higher speeds leading to a net reduction in pedestrian survivability for collision minimizing maneuvers . First this trend is demonstrated and explained using a simplified point mass model of a vehicle which is then verified with a higher fidelity vehicle model as well as experimental maneuvers with an instrumented vehicle . While real accidents involve dozens of important parameters this research provides a general framework for an under recognized effect under certain common conditions . The implication of this finding suggests that future research in pedestrian avoidance should consider fatality minimization as an alternative objective to collision minimization .

@highlight Simulations show minimizing pedestrian vehicle collisions may increase fatalities.
@highlight Increased speed during collision minimization is the cause of increased fatalities.
@highlight Braking is often the fatality minimizing maneuver.
