 The overtaking maneuver performed by motorcyclists is one of the primary causes of motorcycle accidents . However few studies in the literature deal with this topic and there are no studies modeling the total overtaking duration i.e . the time during which extreme hazards are manifest . The present paper aims to analyze the motorcyclists behavior during overtaking and to model the total overtaking duration . A field experiment using instrumented motorcycles was performed to collect data and a survival analysis was carried out to model the total overtaking duration . Twenty young motorcyclists drove their own motorcycles which were instrumented with a camera and a global positioning system device onto a two lane suburban road in Rome . A total of 101 overtaking maneuvers were recorded . A methodology based on video and GPS analyses was developed to obtain data describing the motorcyclists behavior . The obtained results showed that the mean values of the main parameters of the overtaking maneuver were consistent with the few data available in the revised literature . The total overtaking duration was modelled using a hazard based duration model . The parametric accelerated failure time duration model with a log logistic distribution which was the best fitted distribution identified the covariates which affected in a statistically significant way the total overtaking duration . The obtained model revealed that the overtaking duration depends on several covariates . The greater average impact was found for the initial distance and speed difference while the initial lateral distance and final distance produced a minor impact . When performing a multiple overtaking the duration of the maneuver tended to increase by 31 . This research can be considered as a pilot study and a starting point for future advances on motorcyclists behavior during overtaking maneuver and for modeling the total overtaking duration . In addition the findings of this study could contribute to the development of advanced rider assistance systems for the overtaking maneuver based on current driving conditions .

@highlight A field experiment using instrumented motorcycles was performed.
@highlight Data on motorcyclists behavior during overtaking maneuver were collected.
@highlight A survival analysis was carried out to model the total overtaking duration.
@highlight The log logistic distribution provided the best fit to the total overtaking duration.
@highlight The model identified the significant covariates that affected the overtaking duration.
