 Channelized right turns or slip lanes have been widely implemented as an effective countermeasure of reducing traffic delay and number of conflicts between vehicles at signalized intersections . However only a few studies have investigated the impact of channelized right turns on pedestrian safety . Channelized right turns may increase the risks for pedestrians since they bring pedestrian vehicle interactions in a fully non signalized environment . Furthermore the increased turning radius at channelized lanes can lead to higher vehicle speeds . This paper investigates the impact of channelized right turns on pedestrian safety based on surrogate safety and behavior measures . Video data were collected from twelve signalized intersections in the city of Zunyi China involving three main types of right turn designs 1 non channelized right only lanes 2 non channelized right through lanes and 3 channelized right turn lanes . Different measures are used including interaction and behavior measures based on a recent proposed Distance Velocity model the PET measurement speed measurements and observations of failures in interactions . Results indicate that the design of channelized right turn lane increases pedestrian risks at signalized intersections from different dimensions of safety . The impact of the nighttime condition on pedestrian safety was also compared . Pedestrians are safer at nighttime at non channelized locations while the impact of nighttime conditions on pedestrian safety at channelized intersections was not ascertained . Consequently cities should be cautious to install channelized intersections as a safety countermeasure . Treatments are needed to improve pedestrian safety if channelized right turns are implemented .

@highlight Channelized right turns have been widely implemented to reduce traffic delay.
@highlight The impact channelized right turns on pedestrian safety has not been addressed.
@highlight The performance of different right turn designs on pedestrian safety is compared.
@highlight Surrogate safety and behavioral measures from multiple facets of safety were used.
@highlight Channelized right turns increase pedestrian risks from different safety dimensions.
