 Bicycling at night is dangerous with vehicle passing distances being a key concern given that the main cause of night time bicycling fatalities is from motorists hitting bicyclists from behind . However little is known about vehicle passing distances at night or how they are affected by bicyclist visibility . This study assessed the impact of different bicyclist visibility configurations on vehicle passing distances at night time . Fourteen licenced drivers with normal vision drove an experimental vehicle with low beam headlights around a 1 km section of a closed road circuit at night . Each lap involved passing two bicyclists displaying one of four visibility configurations Control Handlebars Helmet and Leg Retro reflectors . Participants were instructed to pass each bicyclist at a distance of 1 metre at a speed no greater than 50km hr consistent with Queenslands Minimum Passing Distance rule . Participants completed eight laps two for each configuration in a randomised sequence . Passing distance was measured using a vehicle mounted ultra sonic sensor . Following each lap participants rated the difficulty level in judging the 1 metre passing distance as well as their estimated passing distance . Visibility configuration significantly affected passing distance with wider passing distances for the Handlebar configuration followed by the Helmet Leg Retro reflectors which were all significantly greater than the Control but not significantly different from each other . There was also a significant effect of visibility configuration on difficulty rating with the Control rated as the most difficult followed by Helmet Handlebars and Leg Retro reflectors . Overall additional visibility aids resulted in wider vehicle passing distances likely due to enhanced visual cues for drivers . The findings suggest that bicyclists should incorporate additional visibility aids to encourage safer passing distances of vehicles at night time .

@highlight Poor visibility of bicyclists to drivers is a key contributor to collisions at night time.
@highlight Vehicle passing distance is a key concern for bicyclists yet little is known about passing distances at night.
@highlight This experimental study explored the impact of bicycle visibility aids on vehicle passing distances on a closed road circuit.
@highlight Additional bicycle visibility aids resulted in wider passing distances likely due to enhanced visual cues for drivers.
@highlight Bicyclists should incorporate additional visibility aids to encourage safer passing distances of vehicles at night time.
