 Drivers apply brakes to reduce the speed of a vehicle based on the perceived risk while approaching a certain event . Inadequate or excessive braking can lead to serious consequences . The current study analyses the braking behaviour and accident probability of the drivers under increasing time pressure conditions . Two perilous events were designed to examine Brake Pedal Force and Brake To Maximum Brake transition time on a driving simulator . Eighty five Indian licensed drivers drove the simulator in three different time pressure conditions No Time Pressure Low Time Pressure and High Time Pressure . Random parameters Tobit model was used for analysing BPF and duration analysis approach was considered for BTMB analysis . Further generalized linear mixed model with logit link function was used to study the effect of BPF and BTMB on accident probability of the drivers . The model results showed that gender driving profession approach speed age driving history and driving condition significantly affected braking behaviour of the drivers . It was observed that in pedestrian crossing event LTP and HTP driving conditions resulted in 42.31 and 87.28 increase in BPF and 13 and 23 reduction in BTMB respectively with respect to NTP driving condition and the corresponding changes were slightly lower in case of obstacle overtaking event . The accident probability model showed that female drivers needed 119.70 and 186.08 more BPF and 37.55 and 58.51 less BTMB in LTP and HTP driving conditions respectively to have equivalent risk levels as observed for male drivers . Further non professional drivers had to increase their BPF by 166.83 in LTP and 219.93 in HTP to offset their increased accident risk as compared to professional drivers under time pressure conditions .

@highlight Simulator study was conducted to test braking behvaiour in time pressure conditions.
@highlight Experiments were performed with 85 drivers for increasing time pressure conditions.
@highlight Increase in time pressure resulted in abrupt and aggressive application of brakes.
@highlight Abrupt and aggressive braking lowered accident risk under time pressure conditions.
