 The present study has investigated the relationship between traffic volume and crash numbers by means of meta analysis based on 521 crash prediction models from 118 studies . The weighted pooled volume coefficient for all crashes and all levels of crash severity is 0.875 . The most important moderator variable is crash type . Pooled volume coefficients are systematically greater for multi vehicle crashes than for single vehicle crashes . Regarding crash severity the results indicate that volume coefficients are smaller for more fatal crashes than for injury crashes but no systematic differences were found between volume coefficients for injury and property damage only crashes . At higher levels of volume and on divided roads volume coefficients tend to be greater than at lower levels of volume and on undivided roads . This is consistent with the finding that freeways on average have greater volume coefficients than other types of road and that two lane roads are the road type with the smallest average volume coefficients . The results indicate that results from crash prediction models are likely to be more precise when crashes are disaggregated by crash type crash severity and road type . Disaggregating models by volume level and distinguishing between divided and undivided roads may also improve the precision of the results . The results indicate further that crash prediction models may be misleading if they are used to predict crash numbers on roads that differ from those that were used for model development with respect to composition of crash types share of fatal or serious injury crashes road types and volume levels .

@highlight Meta analysis of the relationship between traffic volume and crash numbers.
@highlight Crashes increase with increasing volumes but mostly at a lower rate.
@highlight The relationship is strongest for multi vehicle crashes at high volumes and on freeways.
@highlight The relationship is weaker for fatal than for less serious crashes.
@highlight Crash prediction models may improve from disaggregation by crash and road type and volume level.
