 No economic evaluations exist of free or subsidized ridesharing services designed to reduce impaired driving . To evaluate the effects and economics of a 17 weekend program that provided rideshare coupons good for free one way or round trips to from the hospitality zones in Columbus Ohio coupled with a modest increase in enforcement and a media campaign that used messaging about enforcement to promote usage . Web surveys of riders and intercept surveys of foot traffic in the hospitality zones yielded data on the reduction in driving after drinking and the change in alcohol consumption associated with coupon use . We estimated crash changes from trip data using national studies then confirmed with an ARIMA analysis of monthly police crash reports . Costs and output data came from program and rideshare company records . 70.8 of 19 649 responding coupon redeemers said coupon use reduced the chance they would drive after drinking . An estimated 1 in 4 310 drink driving trips results in an alcohol attributable crash so the coupons prevented an estimated 3.2 crashes . Consistent with that minimal change the ARIMA analysis did not detect a drunk driving crash reduction . Self reports indicated alcohol consumption rose by an average of 0.4 drinks per coupon redeemer possibly with an equal rise among people who rode with the redeemer . The program cost almost 650 000 and saved an estimated 1.8 years of healthy life . Across a range of discount rates and values for a year of healthy life it cost 366 000 to 791 000 per year of healthy life saved . Its estimated benefit cost ratio was between 0.31 and 0.59 meaning it cost far more than it saved . Ridesharing coupled with a media campaign and increased enforcement was not a cost effective drunk driving intervention . Although it reduced drink driving crashes and saved years of healthy life those savings were modest and expensive . Moreover the self reported increase in participant drinking imposed countervailing risks . Even sensitivity analyses that potentially overestimate the benefits and underestimate the costs indicate a significant imbalance between program costs and savings . Any funding devoted to ridesharing would divert scarce resources from interventions with benefit cost ratios above 1 . Thus our evaluation suggests that governments should not devote energy or resources to ridesharing programs if their primary objective is to reduce drink driving or harmful alcohol use .

@highlight Well publicized free safe rides to from hospitality zones reduce drink driving.
@highlight These rides increase alcohol consumption and cost more than they save.
@highlight Limiting rides to one way from the zones does not change these findings.
@highlight Return on investment would rise for drink driving crash rates above US rates.
@highlight US governments should not devote energy or resources to ridesharing programs.
