 Speeding is considered as one of the most significant contributing factors to severe traffic crashes . Understanding the associations between trip driving roadways features and speeding behavior is crucial for both researchers and practitioners . This research utilized naturalistic driving data collected by the Safety Pilot Model Deployment program and roadway features from a road inventory dataset Highway Performance Monitoring System provided by the United States Department of Transportation to investigate the hidden rules that associated trip driving roadway features with speeding behavior . A classification based association algorithm was adopted to explore the hidden rules from two perspectives of speeding speeding duration and speeding pattern . Results indicate that the combinations of longer trips driving on the roadways with a relatively higher functional class are highly associated with longer speeding events . The moderate speeding events are found highly associated with the combination of driving on roadways with lower functional class absence of a median and relatively short trip time . The research also found the combinations of driving on roadways with relatively lower functional class experienced congestion before a speeding event and the presence of a median is a leading cause that triggers a higher speeding pattern . Furthermore the moderate speeding pattern is associated with the combinations of factors like experiencing congestion before a speed event driving on roadways with higher functional class and a relatively shorter trip . The findings can help practitioners understand the composite effect of these factors more comprehensively and provide corresponding countermeasures to mitigate the negative consequences of speeding wherever possible . These can also help in calibrating driver behavior parameters for transportation related simulation tools .

@highlight Understand speeding behavior from two perspectives speeding pattern and speeding duration.
@highlight Longer trips driving on the roadway with higher functional class are associated with longer speeding events.
@highlight Short trips absence of median and lower functional class roadways are associate with moderate speeding events.
@highlight Drive on roadways with low functional class experienced congestion and presence of median leads to a higher speeding pattern.
@highlight Drive on roadways with higher functional class experienced congestion and short trips trigger a moderate speeding pattern.
