 Run off the road crashes account for a significant proportion of severe injuries to vehicle occupants . Traffic barriers have been installed with an objective to keep vehicles on the roadway and prevent them from hitting natural obstacles like trees or boulders . However still injuries and fatalities of barrier crashes account for high proportion of fatalities on roadway . Due to challenging geometrics characteristics of Wyomings roadway a high mileage of barriers has been installed in the state . The high mileages of barriers result in a high number of barrier crashes in terms of crash frequency and severity due to high exposure . Previous studies mainly focused on crash frequency or individual crash severity . However it has been recognized the importance of accounting for both aspects of crash severity and crash frequency . So in this study crashes are aggregated across different barriers and those crashes were converted into costs by considering the impacts of both crash severity and frequency . However one of the main challenges of this type of dataset is highly skewness of crash data due to its sparseness nature . An improper use of model distribution of crash cost would result in biased estimations of the covariates and erroneous results . Thus in order to address this issue a semi parametric method of quantile regression technique was implemented to account for the skewness of the response by relaxing model distribution parameters . Also to account for the heterogeneity in the dataset due to barriers types a random intercept model accounting for the structure of the data was implemented . In addition interaction terms between significant predictors were considered . Understanding what factors with which magnitude contribute to the barrier crash costs is crucial for the future barriers optimization process . Thus contributory factors to barriers crash cost with high medium and low values corresponding to 95

@highlight In this study crashes are aggregated across different barriers and those crashes were converted into costs by considering both impacts of crash severity and frequency.
@highlight A semi parametric method of quantile regression technique was implemented to account for the skewness of the response by relaxing model distribution parameters.
@highlight To account for the heterogeneity in the data set a random intercept model accounting for the structure of the data was implemented.
@highlight Contributory factors to barriers crash cost with low medium and high values corresponding to 95
@highlight  70
@highlight  and 60
@highlight percentiles were considered.
@highlight The implemented model was compared with standard linear quantile model indicting that linear quantile mix model enhance the model performance significantly.
