 The aim of this study was to determine whether interregional inequality in Spain had the same impact on the risks of fatality and injury across the different provinces of Spain in the period from 1999 to 2015 . This allows us to map fatality and injury rates in Spanish provinces depending on their level of economic development . Provinces were divided in two large groups according to the mean weight of their per capita GDP on the national GDP from 2000 to 2015 . Using fixed effects data panel models estimations were obtained for each group of the impact of the relationships between per capita GDP unemployment rate and other control variables on their risks of fatality and injury . The models reveal that economic conditions and education are explanatory factors with greater significance and impact on the risks of fatality and injury in provinces with higher levels of economic development . In this group the penalty points driving licence was found have a greater impact although its effectiveness is now being questioned . In contrast to reduce the risks of fatality and injury in less developed provinces it is imperative to invest in road infrastructure increasing the proportion of high capacity roads and investing more in road replacement and maintenance . The geographical distribution generated in this study allows us to better identify the areas with a higher risk of fatality or injury . This in turn confirms the need to improve the configuration of road safety policy taking into account the different fatality or injury rates across provinces the origins of which lie in the specific provincial conditions .

@highlight Economic development impacts the number of road accidents in the richest provinces.
@highlight Greater development of the transport system benefits the lowest income provinces.
@highlight The penalty points licence system should be reviewed to enhance its effectiveness.
@highlight Driving behaviour affects road safety in Spanish provinces.
@highlight The characteristics of a province are a determinant of its road accident rate.
