 Many road authorities in Canada have been contemplating the use of wider longitudinal pavement markings to enhance road safety and driver comfort . However conclusive evidence on the safety impacts of wider LPMs has not been available . To address this gap in the literature this study was conducted to investigate the safety impacts of wider LPMs . The study adopted the Full Bayes approach to conduct a before and after safety evaluation using data collected from 38 treatment sites from three Canadian jurisdictions . Collision and traffic data were obtained from the 38 sites over a period of eight years . The widths of LPMs at all sites were increased between 2012 and 2013 which enables a before and after safety evaluation to investigate the impact of the wider markings on the collision frequency . The results showed an overall significant reduction in both total collisions and target collisions by 12.3 and 19.0 respectively after implementing the wider LPMs . Total collisions were reduced by 11.1 27.5 and 1.1 in Alberta British Columbia and Quebec respectively . Similarly a reduction in the run off the road collisions that ranged between 22.7 and 28.9 were observed in the three jurisdictions . The results suggest that wider longitudinal pavement markings can reduce collisions and improve safety on Canadian highways . As such road authorities should consider using this intervention to enhance road safety particularly at locations that experience a high frequency of run off the road collisions .

@highlight This study adopted the FB approach to evaluate the safety impacts of wider longitudinal pavement markings using data from BC AB and QC.
@highlight An overall reduction in total and run off road collisions by 12.3 and 19.0 respectively after implementing the wider markings was observed.
@highlight As well the total and run off road collisions were significantly reduced in each of the three jurisdictions.
@highlight The results suggest that wider longitudinal pavement markings can reduce collisions and improve safety on Canadian highways.
@highlight It is strongly recommended to implement this intervention particularly at locations with a high frequency of run off road collisions.
