 The change interval which includes the yellow and all red times plays a crucial role in the safety and operation of signalized intersections . During this interval drivers not only need to decide to stop or go but also have to interact with drivers both in front and behind trying to avoid conflicting decisions . Red light running and inconsistent stopping behavior may increase the risk for angular and rear end crashes . This study aims to investigate the effect of different innovative countermeasures on red light running prevention and safe stopping behavior at signalized intersections . Five different conditions were tested inviting sixty seven volunteers with a valid driving license . The conditions include a default traffic signal setting flashing green signal setting red LED ground lights integrated with a traffic signal yellow interval countdown variable message sign and red light running detection camera warning gantry . Drivers in each condition were exposed to two different situations based on the distance from the stop line . In the first situation drivers were located in the indecision zone while in the second situation they were located in the likely stopping zone . A series of logistic regression analyses and linear mixed models were conducted to investigate the overall safety effects of the different countermeasures . The probability of red light running was significantly reduced for R LED in both analyses . Moreover a clearly inconsistent stopping behavior was observed for the flashing green condition . Furthermore a unit increase in speed at the onset of yellow interval significantly increases the probability of RLR by 5.3 .

@highlight Red LED lights significantly reduced probability of RLR at signalized intersections.
@highlight Red LED lights could reduce cognitive load for judgement about stop go decisions.
@highlight Flashing green increases risk of rear end collisions due to inconsistent stopping.
@highlight Countdown VMS motivated drivers positioned in the stopping zone to cross red light.
@highlight Red LED is recommended as an innovative and effective treatment for RLR prevention.
