 The threat of application of legal sanctions remains the prominent approach to reduce the prevalence of drink driving in a vast array of motoring jurisdictions . However ongoing questions remain regarding the extent that such mechanisms impact upon offending behaviours the deleterious effect alcohol consumption has on decisions to drink and drive and how best to operationalise the concept of drink driving to enhance the accurate measurement of the dependent variable . This paper reports on an examination of 773 Queensland motorists perceptions of both legal and non legal drink driving sanctions in order to gauge the deterrent impact upon a range of measures of drink driving the driver thinking they are over the limit the driver knowing they are over the limit attempts to evade random breath testing and intentions to re offend . The sample completed an online or paper version of the questionnaire . The majority of participants reported never engaging in possible or acknowledged drink driving events although a considerable proportion of the sample reported engaging in possible or acknowledged drink driving and attempting to evade RBT events as well as possible intentions to drink and drive in the future . Males were more likely to report such events . Perceptions of both legal sanctions as well as non legal sanctions were relatively high and consistent with previous research . Interestingly non legal sanctions were reported as stronger deterrents than legal sanctions . However multivariate analysis revealed that legal deterrents had limited utility predicting offending behaviours but rather demographic characteristics as well as risky drinking behaviour were better predictors . In regards to intentions to offend a past conviction for drink driving was also a predictor of re offending . These results highlight the ongoing challenges of addressing the problem of drink driving and that some motorists have entrenched behaviour and or make the decision to drink and drive before they are under the influence of alcohol .

@highlight Various measures used to operationalise drink driving were examined.
@highlight Perceptions of both legal and non legal sanctions for drink driving were high.
@highlight Non legal sanctions were a larger deterrent for drink driving than legal sanctions.
@highlight Past drink driving conviction was a predictor of re offending.
@highlight Age gender and risky drinking behaviours were drink driving predictors.
