 Previous studies have focused on the impact of visibility level on drivers behavior and their safety in foggy weather . However other important environmental factors such as road alignment have not been considered . This paper aims to propose a methodology in investigating rear end collision avoidance behavior under varied foggy conditions with focusing on changes in visibility and road alignment in this study . A driving simulator experiment with a mixed 246 factor design was conducted using an advanced high fidelity driving simulator . The design matrix includes two safety critical conditions four visibility conditions and six road alignment situations . Behavior variables from different dimensions were identified and compared under varied conditions . To estimate the safety of drivers a time based measurement speed reduction time is selected among the variables as a measure of safety . The survival analysis approach was introduced to model the relationship between environmental factors and driver safety using speed reduction time as the survival time . Both the Kaplan Meier method and the COX model were applied and compared . Results generally suggest that reduced visibility leads to more dangerous rear end collision avoidance behavior from different aspects . Though findings are mixed regarding the road alignment the impact of the road alignment was found to be significant . Interestingly conditions of downward slope were found to be safer . Overall the COX model outperformed the Kaplan Meier method in understanding the impact of environmental factors and it can be applied to investigate other contributing factors for freeway safety under foggy weather conditions .

@highlight Impact of road alignment on driver behavior in fog has not been addressed.
@highlight An experiment on the high fidelity OKTAL driving simulator Tongji was conducted.
@highlight Driver behavior in different foggy conditions was studied from different dimensions.
@highlight Safety analysis was conducted using the survival analysis approach.
@highlight Visibility positively affect safety findings are mixed regarding road alignment.
