 Reducing nonmotorized crashes requires a profound understanding of the causes and consequences of the crashes at the facility level . Generally existing literature on bicyclists and pedestrian crash models suffers from two distinct problems lack of exposure volume data and inadequacy in capturing potential correlations across various crash aspects . To develop a robust framework for pedestrian crash analysis this research employed a multivariate model across multiple pedestrian crash severities incorporating a crucial piece of information pedestrian exposure . A multivariate spatial Poisson lognormal model in a Bayesian framework was developed to examine the significant factors influencing the fatal incapacitating injury and non incapacitating injury pedestrian crashes at 409 signalized intersections in the Austin area . Various explanatory variables were used to examine the pedestrian crashes including traffic characteristics road geometry built environment features and pedestrian exposure volume at intersections which was estimated through a direct demand model as part of the study . Model results revealed valuable insights . The superior performance of the multivariate model over the univariate model emphasized the need to jointly model multiple pedestrian crash severities . The results showed the significant positive influence of speed limit on fatal pedestrian crashes and revealed that both incapacitating and non incapacitating injury crashes increase with increasing motorized traffic volume . Bus stop presence was found to have a negative influence on incapacitating injury crashes and a positive influence on non incapacitating injury crashes . Moreover the pedestrian volume at intersections positively influences non incapacitating injury crashes . The difference in influence across crash types warrants careful and focused policy design of intersections to reduce pedestrian crashes of all severity types .

@highlight Explored pedestrian crash severities at intersections through a Bayesian multivariate spatial Poisson lognormal model.
@highlight Developed a direct demand model to estimate annual average daily pedestrian volume which was used as an exposure measure.
@highlight Reported superior performance of the multivariate model over the univariate model.
@highlight Observed notable variation in the influence of traffic and intersection design related variables across crash severities.
