 Paleontologists and biologists generally utilize different lines of evidence and approaches to study conceptualize and categorize animal behaviour which has led to a divide between the two disciplines and lack of integration of their data . Numerous filters impact the preservation of behaviour in the fossil record . Here we utilize 13 broad categories of behaviour representing the range of modern studies of animal behaviour and assess how they are represented in the fossil record . The data summarized in an existing compilation of fossil behaviours is used to estimate the relative occurrence of each category . We also examine the taxonomic coverage of fossil animal behaviour using the same source . We found that feeding and habitat selection related behaviours were disproportionately represented . Examples of other behavioural categories especially social ones such as mating communication or parenting were considerably rarer whereas personality or play were not represented at all . Arthropods tended to be most well represented including insects in amber followed by vertebrates . Taxonomic coverage was overall fairly diverse . A broader literature search was used to identify the oldest paleontological evidence of each behavioural category . We found that most categories probably appeared by the end of the Cambrian radiation . Finally we suggest that the preservation of behaviour in fossils can be estimated from first principles such as the amount of time animals engage in a behaviour or which behaviours impact a substrate . Reconstructing the evolution of behaviour in deep time requires understanding how the fossil record captures behavioural information . We strongly encourage paleontologists and biologists studying behaviour to work together to help complete our understanding of animal behaviour across the entirety of its evolutionary history .

@highlight The fossil record of behaviour in deep time richly complements the modern.
@highlight A diversity of behaviours is represented in the paleontological literature.
@highlight Surveying this record can reveal how behaviours originated and evolved over time.
@highlight Understanding how behavioural evidence preserves is important for this goal.
