 Driving is a complex task that consists of several physical and physiological processes occurring simultaneously . The complexity of the task depends on several factors but this research focuses on work zone configurations and their effect on driver performance and gaze behavior . The increase in work zone fatalities in the United States between 2015 and 2018 coupled with the limited literature of driver behavior in these complex environments requires a more comprehensive study . Given the nature of these crashes typically lane departures gaze behavior provided an additional physiological dimension to the present research . A framework that comprises of the interactions between driver characteristics mental workload and situation awareness with longitudinal control lateral control and gaze behavior is proposed . Crash analysis and a simulator study with 90 participants were carried out to investigate the performance and gaze based changes with respect to various work zone configurations . Distracted driving was also studied by including a secondary task . The results showed a significant interaction between the longitudinal control and the standard deviation of horizontal gaze position in predicting lateral control . Also significant differences in lateral control and horizontal gaze variations were observed between genders . Female drivers showed lower lateral position deviations and lower horizontal gaze variability . This was a key finding given the inherently higher number of work zone crashes involving male drivers . Placing work zone barriers further away by up to one meter from pavement edges could significantly decrease mental workload and improve safety in work zones .

@highlight Work zone crashes are inherently higher in male drivers.
@highlight A simulator study captured mental workload from various work zone configurations.
@highlight Crash statistics were compared with clustered participant demographics.
@highlight Longitudinal and lateral control along with gaze distributions were modeled.
