 Sleepiness is a major contributor to motor vehicle crashes and shift workers are particularly vulnerable . There is currently no validated objective field based measure of sleep related impairment prior to driving . Ocular parameters are promising markers of continuous driver alertness in laboratory and track studies however their ability to determine fitness to drive in naturalistic driving is unknown . This study assessed the efficacy of a pre drive ocular assessment for predicting sleep related impairment in naturalistic driving in rotating shift workers . Fifteen healthcare workers drove an instrumented vehicle for 2 weeks while working a combination of day evening and night shifts . The vehicle monitored lane departures and behavioural microsleeps during the drive . Immediately prior to driving ocular parameters were assessed with a 4 min test . Lane departures and behavioural microsleeps occurred on 17.5 and 10 of drives that had pre drive assessments respectively . Pre drive blink duration significantly predicted behavioural microsleeps and showed promise for predicting lane departures . Pre drive percentage of time with eyes closed had high accuracy for predicting lane departures and behavioural microsleeps although was not statistically significant . Pre drive psychomotor vigilance task variables were not statistically significant predictors of lane departures . Self reported sleep related and hazardous driving events were significantly predicted by mean blink duration . Measurement of ocular parameters pre drive predict drowsy driving during naturalistic driving demonstrating potential for fitness to drive assessment in operational environments .

@highlight Examined if a pre drive ocular assessment can predict alertness and sleep related driving impairment on the subsequent drive in naturalistic driving in shift workers.
@highlight Blink duration significantly predicted behavioural microsleeps and showed promise for predicting lane departures.
@highlight A 4 minute pre drive ocular assessment predicted lane departures and behavioural microsleeps with more accuracy than a 2 minute pre drive ocular assessment.
