 Accident risk is increased for emergency responders driving with warning lights and sirens compared to other road users driving . Currently no standards for education of ambulance drivers exist . Research shows that high order understanding trainings focusing on insight to avoid critical driving situations might be more helpful than trainings focusing on car handling . The present controlled intervention study evaluates a one day simulator based high order training program specifically designed for ambulance drivers . In a longitudinal design with three measurement times multiple methods were used to evaluate the training holistically targeting the levels of reaction to training learning behavior and results of training . Questionnaire knowledge test and driving profile data were analyzed with repeated measures analysis of variance controlling for age and sex . Data of two intervention groups and one control waiting group was collected between 2014 and 2017 in two German federal states . 183 German paramedics participated in the study . 147 participants completed post training tests and 30 participants completed follow up measurements six months after training . Participants reaction to training was positive directly after the training and dropped slightly over time . Intervention group participants gained traffic relevant knowledge compared to control group participants . Risk sensitivity of regular driving situations was the only attitude variable positively affected by training . This effect was not sustained six months after training . Training led to a decrease of average and maximum speed in short as well as long term measurements but did not affect drivers acceleration . Although speed was lower in post tests emergency response times did not differ . The simulator based training for paramedics has small but notable effects on drivers knowledge attitudes and real driving behavior . Although only very few measured variables showed positive training effects no negative training effects were found . Speed was reduced in the long term which underlines the importance of such a training . More research is needed to determine effects on different types of participants and to elicit framework conditions for training integration in formal education .

@highlight Holistic training evaluation on all four Kirkpatrick evaluation levels.
@highlight Evaluation of simulator based training specifically designed for ambulance drivers.
@highlight Results show difficulty of attitude modification and behavioral change in traffic.
@highlight Training positively influenced knowledge risk sensitivity and reduced speed.
@highlight Reduced speed due to training did not prolong driving times to operation sites.
