 Road hazard perception is considered the most prominent higher order cognitive skill related to traffic accident involvement . Regional cultures and social rules that govern acceptable behavior may influence drivers interpretation of a traffic situation and consequently the correct identification of potentially hazardous situations . Here we aimed to compare hazard perception skills among four European countries that differ in their traffic culture policies to reduce traffic risks and fatal crashes Ukraine Italy Spain and Sweden . We developed a static hazard perception test in which driving scenes with different levels of braking affordance were presented while drivers gaze was recorded . The test required drivers to indicate the action they would undertake to brake vs. to keep driving . We assessed 218 young adult drivers . Multilevel models revealed that the scenes levels of braking affordance modulated drivers behavior . As the levels of braking affordance increased drivers responses became faster and their gaze entropy decreased . The country of origin influenced these effects . Ukrainian drivers were the fastest and Swedish drivers were the slowest to respond . For all countries the decrement in response times was less marked in the case of experienced drivers . Also Spanish drivers showed the most structured visual search strategy whereas the Italians had the most rigid one . These results suggest that road hazard perception can be defined cross culturally with cultural factors modulating response times and visual search strategies . Our results also support the idea that a multimodal assessment methodology is possible for mass testing of road hazard perception and its outcomes would be relevant to understand how different traffic cultures shape driving behavior .

@highlight We compared hazard perception among drivers from Ukraine Italy Spain and Sweden.
@highlight Road hazard levels modulate response times and visual search strategies.
@highlight There are cross cultural differences in road hazard perception.
@highlight Cultural factors modulate the promptness of drivers responses.
@highlight Cultural factors modulate drivers visual search strategies.
