 Although mortality trends can be influenced by different ages periods and cohorts few studies have demonstrated the age period cohort effect on road traffic injury mortality . Moreover APC effects in Korea have never been documented despite the high mortality rates from RTIs . This study aimed to describe the trends in mortality from RTIs and examine APC effects on RTI mortality in Korea . Using the national death certificate and census mid year population estimates data during 19832017 trends in age standardized mortality rates from RTIs were analyzed using Joinpoint regression . Intrinsic estimator regression models were used to estimate APC effects on RTI mortality . Consistent with the trend in period effects RTI mortality increased sharply with the economic growth in the 1980s decelerated after the implementation of road safety policies in the early 1990s plummeted owing to the 19971998 financial crisis and gradually decreased from the early 2000s . A J shaped age effect indicated that the relative risk of road traffic death surged in people aged 65 years . Educational expansion from the mid 1950s turned an increasing birth cohort effect into a continuously decreasing trend after peaking around the 19381943 birth cohorts . The risk of road traffic death was relatively high among the Korean Generation Y i.e . those born in 19781983 . RTI mortality trends in Korea have been affected by diverse socioeconomic changes through cohort and period effects . Despite the recent favorable trend RTI mortality remains high especially among older people . Road safety policies to address the burden of RTIs require further improvement .

@highlight Road traffic injury mortality in Korea has declined after peaking in the mid 1990s.
@highlight Road safety policies and the financial crisis might have affected this decline.
@highlight Educational expansion might reduce mortality risk through the cohort effect.
@highlight Mortality risk was high among the Korean Generation Y born in 19781983.
@highlight Policies to address the burden of road traffic injury require further improvement.
