 Current automated driving technology can not cope in numerous conditions that are basic daily driving situations for human drivers . Previous studies show that profound understanding of human drivers capability to interpret and anticipate traffic situations is required in order to provide similar capacities for automated driving technologies . There is currently not enough a priori understanding of these anticipatory capacities for safe driving applicable to any given driving situation . To enable the development of safer more economical and more comfortable automated driving experience expert drivers anticipations and related uncertainties were studied on public roads . First driving instructors expertise in anticipating traffic situations was validated with a hazard prediction test . Then selected driving instructors drove in real traffic while thinking aloud anticipations of unfolding events . The results indicate sources of uncertainty and related adaptive and social behaviors in specific traffic situations and environments . In addition the applicability of these anticipatory capabilities to current automated driving technology is discussed . The presented method and results can be utilized to enhance automated driving technologies by indicating their potential limitations and may enable improved situation awareness for automated vehicles . Furthermore the produced data can be utilized for recognizing such upcoming situations in which the human should take over the vehicle to enable timely take over requests .

@highlight The prospective thinking aloud method is introduced.
@highlight With the method expert drivers anticipations can be analyzed.
@highlight Anticipations revealed uncertainties and related adaptive and social behaviors.
@highlight The method can show prototypical traffic events and their information requirements.
@highlight The results indicate automated vehicles limitations as compared to expert drivers.
@highlight Data can be used to recognize events where human should take over automated vehicle.
@highlight The method and results can be used to enhance automated driving technology safety.
