 Cycling is increasingly promoted as a sustainable transport mode . However bicyclists are more vulnerable to fatality and severe injury in road crashes compared to vehicle occupants . It is necessary to identify the contributory factors to crashes and injuries involving bicyclists . For the prediction of motor vehicle crashes comprehensive traffic count data i.e . AADT and vehicle kilometer traveled are commonly available to proxy the exposure . However extensive bicycle count data are usually not available . In this study revealed bicycle trip data of a public bicycle rental system in the Greater London is used to proxy the bicycle crash exposure . Random parameter negative binomial models are developed to measure the relationship between possible risk factors and bicycle crash frequency at the zonal level based on the crash data in the Greater London in 20122013 . Results indicate that model taking the bicycle use time as the exposure measure is superior to the other counterparts with the lowest AIC and BIC . Bicycle crash frequency is positively correlated to road density commercial area proportion of elderly male and white race and median household income . Additionally separate bicycle crash prediction models are developed for different seasons . Effects of the presence of Cycle Superhighway and proportion of green area on bicycle crash frequency can vary across seasons . Findings of this study are indicative to the development of bicycle infrastructures traffic management and control and education and enforcement strategies that can enhance the safety awareness of bicyclists and reduce their crash risk in the long run .

@highlight This study investigates the factors contributing to bicycle crash frequency at zonal level.
@highlight Usage data of a public bicycle rental system is used to estimate the bicycle crash exposure.
@highlight Road density land use bicycle infrastructure demographic and socioeconomics affect the bicycle crash frequency.
@highlight Effects of bicycle infrastructure and land use on bicycle crash frequency vary across seasons.
