 Cycling as a mode of active transportation has numerous health and societal benefits but carries risks of injury when performed on road with vehicles . Cycle tracks are dedicated lanes with a physical separation or barrier between bicycles and motor vehicles . Studies on the effectiveness of cycle tracks in urban areas in North America as well as the area wide effects of cycle tracks are limited . Study objectives were to examine the effect of cycle track implementation on cyclist motor vehicle collisions occurring on streets treated with new cycle tracks on streets surrounding new cycle tracks in Toronto Canada . Intervention and outcome data were obtained from the City of Toronto . All police reported CMVC from 2000 to 2016 were mapped . Analyses were restricted to 2 years pre and 2 years post track implementation . Rates were calculated for CMVC on streets with cycle tracks and in five defined areas surrounding cycle tracks . Zero Inflated Poisson regression was used to compare changes to CMVC rates before and after cycle track implementation for both objectives . All models controlled for season of collision and cycle track . The majority of CMVC on cycle tracks occurred at intersections . The crude CMVC rate increased two fold after cycle track implementation however after accounting for the increase in cycling volumes post implementation there was a 38 reduction in the CMVC rate per cyclist month . On streets between 151m550m from cycle tracks there was a significant 35 reduction in CMVC rates per km month following track implementation . Cycle track implementation was associated with increased safety for cyclists on cycle tracks after adjusting for cycling volume . In addition there was a significant reduction in CMVC on streets surrounding cycle tracks between 151m550m distance from the tracks suggesting an area wide safety effect of cycle track implementation .

@highlight Few studies have examined safety effects of cycle tracks in North America and its effects in surrounding areas.
@highlight There were 2.57 times more cyclists on the streets after cycle tracks were installed.
@highlight There was a decreased risk of collision for cyclists on cycle tracks following its implementation.
@highlight Collision rates decreased in surrounding areas after track implementation suggesting additional safety benefits.
