 Attributions of fault are often associated with worse injury outcomes however the consistency and magnitude of these impacts is not known . This review examined the prognostic role of fault on health mental health pain and work outcomes after transport injury . A systematic search of five electronic databases yielded 16 324 records published between 2000 and January 2018 . Eligibility criteria were adult transport injury survivors prospective design multivariable analysis fault related factor analysed pain mental health general health or work related outcome . Citations and full text articles were screened manually and using concurrent machine learning and text mining . Data from 55 papers that met all inclusion criteria were extracted papers were evaluated for risk of bias using the QUIPS tool and overall level of evidence was assessed using the GRADE tool . There were six main fault related factors classified as fault or responsibility fault based compensation lawyer involvement or litigation blame or guilt road user or position in vehicle and impact direction . Overall there were inconsistent associations between fault and transport injury outcomes and 60 of papers had high risk of bias . There was moderate evidence that fault based compensation claims were associated with poorer health related outcomes and that lawyer involvement was associated with poorer work outcomes beyond 12 months post injury . However the evidence of negative associations between fault based compensation claims and work related outcomes was limited . Lawyer involvement and fault based compensation claims were associated with adverse mental health outcomes six months post injury but not beyond 12 months . The most consistent associations between fault and negative outcomes were not for fault attributions per se but were related to fault related procedures .

@highlight Fault constructs included responsibility blame compensation lawyer use road user and impact direction.
@highlight Overall fault had inconsistent null or negative associations with transport injury outcomes.
@highlight Fault based compensation claims were associated with worse health related outcomes.
@highlight Lawyer involvement and fault based claims were associated with worse short term mental health outcomes.
