 Hotspot identification is one of the most important components in the highway safety management process . Previous research has found that hazardous sites identified with different methods are not consistent . It is therefore necessary to evaluate the performance of various HSID methods . The existing evaluation criteria are limited to two consecutive periods and do not consider the temporal instability of crashes . In addition one existing criterion does not precisely evaluate HSID method under given circumstances . This paper proposed three generalized criteria to evaluate the performance of HSID methods High Crashes Consistency Test is proposed to evaluate HSID methods in terms of their reliabilities of identifying sites with high crash counts Common Sites Consistency Test is proposed to gauge HSID methods in consistently identifying a set of common sites as hazardous sites and Absolute Rank Differences Test is proposed to measure the consistency of HSID methods in measuring the absolute differences in rankings . Further three commonly used HSID methods are applied to estimate crashes on Texas rural two lane roadway segments with eight years of crash data . The performance of these three HSID methods were evaluated to validate the proposed criteria . Comparisons between the existing criteria and the generalized criteria revealed that the generalized criteria are capable of evaluating different HSID methods over multiple periods and the generalized criteria are enhanced with a consistent result and with less discrepancy in scores of the best identified HSID method .

@highlight Three HSID method evaluation tests are generalized and enhanced HCCT CSCT and ARDT.
@highlight HCCT evaluates a HSID methods reliability in identifying sites with high crash counts.
@highlight CSCT measures a HSID methods consistency in identifying common hazardous sites.
@highlight ARDT assesses a HSID methods consistency in measuring the absolute differences in rankings.
@highlight The generalized tests are capable of evaluating HSID methods over multiple periods and the results are more consistent.
