 The rapid development of expressways has led to an increasing number of place names that must be displayed on road guide signs . As a result multi board guide signs have been increasingly set up on expressways . The main aim of this study was to analyze the effect of the directional road sign displayed on multi and single board signs on driver mental workload and behavior . 32 participants including 16 females participated in the experiment and completed 3 driving simulation scenes . The setting of each scene sign board was different 1 board 2 boards and 3 boards . The driver needed to reach the designated destination according to the guidance of the road signs . Eye tracker was used to measure the fixation saccade and electroencephalogram was used to measure the alpha band absolute power in different signage scenarios . There are two major findings of the study . First when the number of place names is less than or equal to 7 the multi board sign generates more mental workload than the single board sign does . The alpha band power of the driver s frontal area under the multiple boards is lower and affects driving performance . Second when the number of place names is more than 7 there is no significant difference in the effect on mental workload whether multi or single board sign is used . However compared to the single board sign drivers in the case of multi board sign are likely to reduce the fixation duration and increase the number of saccades . The results suggest that it is not necessary to use multi board signs when the number of place names is less than 7 . These findings provide more safety considerations for the setting of multi board guide signs in the future .

@highlight From the perspective of driver s mental workload the impact of the multi board guide signs on traffic safety is studied.
@highlight 32 participants drove on three simulated scenes guided by single board and multi board road signs with different number of place names as 5 7 9 and 11.
@highlight The multi board signs generate more mental workload than the single board sign as result of harsh driving performance.
@highlight Drivers are likely to reduce the fixation duration and increase the number of saccades on the multi board signs.
