 Road safety research in low and middle income countries is limited even though ninety percent of global road traffic fatalities are concentrated in these locations . In Colombia road traffic injuries are the second leading source of mortality by external causes and constitute a significant public health concern in the city of Bogot . Bogot is among the top 10 most bike friendly cities in the world . However bicyclists are one of the most vulnerable road users in the city . Therefore assessing the pattern of mortality and understanding the variables affecting the outcome of bicyclists collisions in Bogot is crucial to guide policies aimed at improving safety conditions . This study aims to determine the spatiotemporal trends in fatal and nonfatal collision rates and to identify the individual and contextual factors associated with fatal outcomes . We use confidence intervals geo statistics and generalized additive mixed models corrected for spatial correlation . The collisions records were taken from Bogots Secretariat of Mobility complemented with records provided by non governmental organizations . Our findings indicate that from 2011 to 2017 the fatal bicycling collision rates per bicyclists population have remained constant for females while decreasing 53 for males . Additionally we identified high risk areas located in the west southwest and southeast of the city where the rate of occurrence of fatal events is higher than what occurs in other parts of the city . Finally our results show associated risk factors that differ by sex . Overall we find that fatal collisions are positively associated with factors including collisions with large vehicles the absence of dedicated infrastructure steep terrain and nighttime occurrence . Our findings support policy making and planning efforts to monitor prioritize and implement targeted interventions aimed at improving bicycling safety conditions while accounting for gender differences .

@highlight Standardized bicycling collision rates have decreased in Bogot in the last 7 years.
@highlight Seven main geographic areas of bicycling risk were identified in Bogot.
@highlight Risk factors associated with bicycling mortality differ by sex.
@highlight Findings support policy making to implement targeted interventions to improve safety.
@highlight Methodology based on open data sources to permit replication and monitoring.
