 The use of an appropriate driving exposure measure is essential to calculate traffic crash rates and risks . Commonly used exposure measures include driving distance and the number of licensed drivers . These measures have some limitations including the unavailability of disaggregated estimates for consecutive years low data quality and the failure to represent the driving population when the crash occurred . However the length of driving time available annually from the American Time Use Survey can be disaggregated by age gender time of day and day of week and addresses the temporal discontinuity limitation of driving distance on the United States national scale . The objective of this study is to determine if the length of driving time as a driving exposure measure is comparable to driving distance by comparing distance based and time based fatal crash risk ratios by driver age category gender time of day and day of week . The 20162017 National Household Travel Survey provided driving distance and 20162017 Fatality Analysis Reporting System provided the number of drivers in fatal crashes . The distributions of driving distance and length of driving time by driver age category gender time of day day of week were compared . Two negative binomial regression models were used to compute the distance based and time based fatal crash risk ratios . The distributions of driving distance were not different from the length of driving time distributions by driver age category gender time of day and day of week . Driving distance and the length of driving time provide similar fatal crash risk ratio estimates . The length of driving time can be an alternative to driving distance as a measure of driving exposure . The primary advantage of driving time over driving distance is that starting from 2003 the disaggregated estimates of the length of driving time are available from ATUS over consecutive years curtailing the discontinuity limitation of driving distance . Furthermore the length of driving time is related to drivers perceived risks about their driving conditions and as a result may be a better exposure measure than driving distance in comparing crash risks between drivers whose likelihood of traveling in hazardous driving conditions varies substantially .

@highlight Comparison of driving time based and population based fatal crash risk ratios was conducted.
@highlight Time based fatal crash risk ratios are consistent with distance based ones.
@highlight Using the length of driving time as a driving exposure measure can curtail the discontinuity limitation with driving distance.
