 This study aimed at modeling the Response Time and Total Braking Time of drivers under Partial Sleep Deprivation . Fifty male participants drove the driving simulator in three experimental conditions two test sessions and a baseline . The two test sessions were conducted after one and two nights of PSD respectively . Sleep reduction was recorded using a wrist worn Actiwatch . The baseline session was conducted after full rest . The order of test sessions and baseline was randomized . Each test included two hazard events 1 pedestrians crossing a road and 2 parked vehicles merging into a roadway . Karolinska Sleepiness Scale and Sleepiness Symptoms Questionnaire ratings were also recorded during each drive . Four separate models using parametric accelerated failure time with Weibull distribution were developed for RT and TBT in the two events . The models were chosen with clustered heterogeneity to account for intra group heterogeneity due to repeated measures across tests . In the case of pedestrians crossing event RT increased by 10 in the first test session and no significant effect observed on RT in the second test session . The overall TBT reduced by 25 and 28 during the first and second PSD sessions respectively . In the case of vehicle merging event both response time and total braking time delayed by 44 and 17 respectively after PSD . Other factors such as age experience work rest hours KSS and SSQ rating often exercising approaching speed and braking force were also found significant in the analysis . The parametric AFT approach adopted in this study showed the change in response time and total braking time concerning the type of hazard scenario and partial sleep deprivation .

@highlight Initial response time delayed by 25 44 with partial sleep loss.
@highlight Drivers with habitual sleeprecommended 7 8h are at higher risks of sleep loss impairments.
@highlight Driving experience does not compensate for sleep loss effects in unfamiliar hazard scenarios
@highlight Total braking time reduced in pedestrian event and increased in vehicle merging event.
