 Large truck rollover crashes present significant financial industrial and social impacts . This paper presents an effort to investigate the contributing factors to large truck rollover crashes . Specific focus was placed on exploring the role of heterogeneity and the potential sources of heterogeneity regarding their impacts on injury severity outcomes . The data used in this study contained large truck rollover crashes that occurred between 2007 and 2016 in the state of Florida . A random parameter ordered logit model was applied . Various driver vehicle roadway and crash attributes were explored as potential predictors in the model . Their impacts were examined for the presence of heterogeneity . Interaction effects were then added to the random variables in order to detect potential sources of heterogeneity . Model results showed that the impacts of lighting conditions and driving speed had significant variation across observations and this variation could be attributed to driver actions and driver conditions at the time of the crash as well as driver vision obstruction . Findings from this study shed light on the direction magnitude and randomness of the factors that contribute to large truck rollover crashes . Findings associated with heterogeneity could help develop more effective and targeted countermeasures to improve freight safety . Driver education programs could be planned more efficiently and advisory and warning signs could be designed in a more insightful manner by taking into account specific roadway attributes such as sandy surfaces downhill curved alignment unpaved shoulders and lighting conditions .

@highlight Injury severity of large truck rollover crashes were studied in the state of Florida.
@highlight Heterogeneity was explored using a random parameter ordered logit model.
@highlight Lighting conditions and medium driving speed 2550mph showed significant variations in their impacts on injury severity.
@highlight Careless driving and abnormal driver condition increased the likelihood of more severe outcomes when driving speed is 2550mph.
@highlight Speeding and vision obstruction led to more severe outcomes in insufficient lighting conditions.
