 Various hypotheses have been proposed to explain mechanisms of personality formation . Several theoretical models predict that interactions between intrinsic state and behaviour gradually increase or sometimes decrease individual variation across ontogeny . However these models should be empirically tested with a simple study system . Here I investigated whether state differences in energy intake promote consistent behavioural differences in clonal geckos . I controlled food supply of two groups and evaluated their life history traits and behavioural traits throughout ontogeny . The high energy group grew faster and laid eggs earlier than the low energy group . Geckos at several age classes exhibited consistent individual differences in risk boldness foraging boldness and activity . However significant behavioural change was detected only in risk boldness individuals in the high energy group maintained boldness over their lifetimes whereas individuals in the low energy group changed to being shy at early stages and returned to being bold at later stages . These results imply that behaviours do not change gradually but drastically in response to energy intake suggesting that personality formation does not represent simple divergence with ontogeny . Because predation risk and food availability change across an individual s lifetime the state dependent safety model could explain divergence and convergence of risk boldness in geckos at different life stages . The present study highlights the importance of a life stage specific effect of energy state on behaviour for personality formation .

@highlight Clonal geckos were reared with different energy intake from hatching to adult.
@highlight The high energy group grew faster and laid eggs earlier than the low energy group.
@highlight Divergence of risk boldness occurred in juvenile but not in adult stages.
@highlight Personality formation was a complicated process contrary to the simple models.
@highlight Life stage specific effects are probably key to understanding individual variation.
