 Mobile phone use is often considered to be the main source of distraction on the road . Gap acceptance at intersections is a frequent and complex driving task that requires high visual attention from drivers . This study aims to investigate the effect of mobile phone use on the gap acceptance manoeuvre at intersections . Different mobile phone use positions intersection type gap size and driver characteristics were considered in the study . A total of 41 licenced drivers drove in an advanced driving simulator in three phone use conditions baseline using the phone under the steering wheel and using the phone above the steering wheel . Drivers drove the simulator three times and experienced two intersection types and two gap sizes during each drive . A parametric accelerated failure time duration model was developed to evaluate the intersection crossing completion time of drivers . The results showed no significant difference of gap acceptance behaviours between the two phone use positions . The distraction task did not affect drivers gap acceptance decision but it increased the crossing completion time by over 10 compared to baseline . Besides drivers behaved conservatively at intersections while using a mobile phone such as adopting a larger deceleration waiting a longer time and mainting a larger distance to the front vehicle etc . However these compensational behaviours were not helpful in improving the intersection traffic situation regarding both safety and efficiency . Intersection type and gap size were both significant factors of gap acceptance decision and crossing completion time . Additionally younger drivers were more likely to accept a gap than older drivers and female drivers spent longer time to cross the intersection than males .

@highlight The effects of driver distraction on gap acceptance were investigated.
@highlight Two mobile phone use positions above vs under the steering wheel were compared.
@highlight Distraction affected crossing behaviours but not gap acceptance decisions.
@highlight Drivers behaved more conservatively when using a mobile phone.
@highlight Drivers have longer crossing completion time when distracted.
