 Adaptive traffic signal control is a novel traffic management system that is often deployed at high volume intersections in order to mitigate traffic congestion and improve travel time reliability . While past studies have demonstrated its operational effectiveness relatively few have focused on safety performance . Those that have tend to suffer from limitations including small sample sizes insufficient study designs or the lack of consideration of potential temporal and corridor effects after ATSC installation . Furthermore results from previous studies are mixed while many studies point to a safety improvement more recent studies seem to indicate that ATSC systems might increase crash frequency . In light of this a comprehensive Empirical Bayes before after observational study was conducted using ATSC data collected throughout Pennsylvania . Crash modification factors were estimated based on the following different case scenarios crash severity levels and crash types intersection locations and intersection configurations . Temporal trends for intersection level CMFs were examined using annual crash data in the after period . Corridor level CMFs were also developed to quantify changes in safety performance along corridors with ATSC installed . The results suggest that ATSC is associated with a nominal increase in total and angle crashes and an expected decrease in fatal plus injury crashes and rear end crashes . However the results were not statistically significant . The safety effect estimates are similar when considering intersection locations and configurations . In addition the temporal trend analysis indicates that the safety effectiveness does not vary annually in the after period suggesting no obvious novelty effect associated with ATSC . Finally the magnitude of the corridor level CMFs are slightly lower than the intersection level CMFs except for rear end crashes .

@highlight CMFs for adaptive traffic signal control ATSC systems developed using Empirical Bayes before after study.
@highlight CMFs for ATSC system impacts at individual intersections and along entire adaptive corridors are estimated.
@highlight Temporal trends in safety performance of ATSC system also studied.
@highlight Results reveal minor increase in total crash frequency and decrease in fatal injury crash frequency.
