 Patients with Parkinsons Disease often exhibit difficulties with visual search that may impede their ability to recognize landmarks and cars while driving . The main objective of this study was to investigate visual search performances of both billboards and cars in patients with PD using a driving simulator . A second objective was to examine the role of cognitive functions in performing the visual search task while driving . Nineteen patients with PD 15 4 and 14 controls first performed a battery of cognitive tests . They then drove in a simulator and were instructed to follow a lead vehicle while searching for billboards with the letter A or red cars among other distractors . Accuracy and response times of visual search were the main outcome variables . Standard deviation of lateral position was the secondary outcome . During driving patients were less accurate in identifying the targets particularly for the stationary billboards located in the outer periphery . Within the group of patients significant correlations were found between several measures of cognitive tests and simulator based visual search accuracy . By contrast only the score on the MOCA test correlated significantly with visual search accuracy in controls . Findings suggest that patients with PD have impaired visual search for more eccentric stationary targets while driving a simulator which is likely due to cognitive deficits . Difficulties identifying objects in the outer periphery may have implications for driving safety . Decreased functional field of view under increased cognitive load may have attributed to the difficulties identifying these landmarks . This may impact the ability to identify anticipate and respond to important information especially in complex driving situations .Future studies should be conducted in a larger sample size to determine whether a visual search task on a driving simulator may predict on road driving performances .

@highlight This research investigated visual search during driving a simulator in PD patients.
@highlight Patients experience difficulties with visual search skills.
@highlight Patients have difficulties to identify billboards in the outer periphery while driving.
