 Although the fatal rate of passenger vehicle involved crashes has decreased in the United States the fatal rate of truck involved crashes has increased . This has in recent years become a more severe problem than that caused by passenger vehicle involved crashes . More studies need to be conducted in order to investigate factors that impact the severity of truck involved crashes within specific scenarios . This study identifies and evaluates the factors that affect the severity of the truck involved crashes at cross and T intersections in North Carolina from 2005 to 2017 . A latent class clustering for data segmentation is implemented to mitigate unobserved heterogeneity inherent in the crash data . Four partial proportional odds models which include fixed and unfixed parameters are developed considering the heterogeneous and ordinal nature inherent in severities . Estimated parameters and marginal effects are further investigated for better interpreting the impacts . Results show heterogeneous explanatory variables and associated coefficients for different classes and severity levels which indicate the superiority of this combined approach to obtaining more specific factors and accurate coefficients that are estimated in different scenarios . Many factors are found to contribute to the severities and crossroad scenarios are found to be more severe than T intersections . The top five driving behaviors at intersections that contribute to the severity include disregarded signs improper lane use followed too closely ignored signals and failure to yield . These behaviors arouse a necessity to amend the traffic laws and strengthen drivers education while giving further insights to engineering practitioners and researchers .

@highlight Truck involved severities at cross and T intersections in North Carolina are modeled.
@highlight Latent class clustering is applied to reduce the heterogeneity of the crash dataset.
@highlight Partial proportional odds models are developed considering the ordinal nature and heterogeneity.
@highlight Factors that affect the crash severity are identified and analyzed under different latent classes.
@highlight Driving behaviors are specifically analyzed and suggestions for countermeasures are also given.
