 Run off road crashes have always been a major concern as this type of crash is usually associated with a considerable number of serious injury and fatal crashes . A substantial portion of ROR fatalities occur in collisions with fixed objects at the roadside . Thus this study seeks to investigate the severity of ROR crashes where elderly drivers aged 65 years or more hit a fixed object . The reason why the present study investigates this issue among older drivers is that comparing to younger drivers this age group of drivers have different psychological and physical features . Because of these differences they are more likely to get injured in ROR types of crashes . This paper applies two types of Artificial Intelligence techniques including hybrid Intelligent Genetic Algorithm and Artificial Neural Network using the crashe information of California in 2012 obtained from Highway Safety Information System database . Although the results showed that the developed ANN outperformed the hybrid Intelligent Genetic Algorithm the hybrid approach was more capable of predicting high severity crashes . This is rooted in the way the hybrid model was trained by taking advantage of the Genetic Algorithm . The results also indicated that the light condition has been the most significant parameter in evaluating the level of severity associated with fixed object crashes among elderly drivers which is followed by the existence of the right and left shoulders . Following these three contributing factors cause of collision Average Annual Daily Traffic number of involved vehicles age road surface condition and gender have been identified as the most important variables in the developed ANN respectively . This helps to identify gaps and improve public safety towards improving the overall highway safety situation of older drivers .

@highlight This paper compared Intelligent Genetic Algorithm to ANN in investigating fixed object crashes among elderly drivers.
@highlight Comparing to ANN Intelligent Genetic Algorithm was more capable of predicting high severity crashes.
@highlight ANN was more accurate in predicting low severity crashes while it was not able to detect more severe crashes.
@highlight Too much complexity did not only create over fitting problems but it also increased the model run time significantly.
@highlight The light condition was identified as the most significant factor followed by the existence of right and left shoulders.
