 Discretionary lane changing is one of the complex driving manoeuvres that requires surrounding traffic information for efficient and safe manoeuvring . The connected environment not only provides such information but also increases situational awareness which is useful for DLC decision making . However the literature is devoid of any concrete evidence of such impact of the connected environment on DLC decision making . As such this paper analyses the effects of the connected environment on DLC behaviour . Seventy eight participants from a diverse background performed DLCs in randomised driving conditions using the CARRS Q advanced driving simulator . These driving conditions are baseline connected environment with perfect communication and connected environment with communication delay . Various key driving behaviour indicators are analysed and compared using a linear mixed model . To analyse the effects of the connected environment on DLC decision making two Generalised Estimation Equation models are developed for gap acceptance and DLC duration . In addition a Weibull accelerated failure time hazard based duration model is developed to investigate the impact of the connected environment on safety associated with DLC manoeuvres . We find that drivers in the connected environment have a larger spacing larger lead and lag gaps a longer DLC duration and a lower acceleration noise compared to the baseline condition . The GEE model on gap acceptance reveals that drivers tend to select relatively bigger gap sizes when the connected environment offers them the subsequent gap information . Similarly the GEE model for DLC duration suggests that the connected environment increases DLC durations by 2.22 s and 2.11 s in perfect communication and communication delay driving conditions respectively . Finally the hazard based duration model provides insights into the probability of avoiding a lane changing collision and indicates that the probability of a lane changing collision is less in the connected environment driving conditions than in the baseline scenario . Overall the connected environment improves the DLC driving behaviour and enhances traffic safety .

@highlight Focused on the connected environments impact on discretionary lane changing decision making.
@highlight Modeled the connected environments impact on safety associated with DLC manoeuvres.
@highlight Developed a Generalised Estimation Equation model for gap acceptance.
@highlight Modelled the duration of discretionary lane changing.
