 Adaptive traffic signal control is a promising technique to improve the efficiency of signalized intersections especially in the era of connected vehicles when real time information on vehicle positions and trajectories is available . Numerous ATSC algorithms have been proposed to accommodate real time traffic conditions and optimize traffic efficiency . The common objective of these algorithms is to minimize total delay decrease queue length or maximize vehicle throughput . Despite their positive impacts on traffic mobility the existing ATSC algorithms do not consider optimizing traffic safety . This is most likely due to the lack of tools to evaluate safety in real time . However recent research has developed various real time safety models for signalized intersections . These models can be used to evaluate safety in real time using dynamic traffic parameters such as traffic volume shock wave characteristics and platoon ratio . Evaluating safety in real time can enable developing ATSC strategies for real time safety optimization . In this paper we present a novel self learning ATSC algorithm to optimize the safety of signalized intersections . The algorithm was developed using the Reinforcement Learning approach and was trained using the simulation platform VISSIM . The trained algorithm was then validated using real world traffic data obtained from two signalized intersections in the city of Surrey British Columbia . Compared to the traditional actuated signal control system the proposed algorithm reduces traffic conflicts by approximately 40 . Moreover the proposed ATSC algorithm was tested under various market penetration rates of CVs . The results showed that 90 and 50 of the algorithms safety benefits can be achieved at MPR values of 50 and 30 respectively . To the best of the authors knowledge this is the first self learning ATSC algorithm that optimizes traffic safety in real time .

@highlight A novel self learning ATSC algorithm is developed to optimize safety in real time.
@highlight The developed algorithm adapts traffic signals using real time CVs data.
@highlight The algorithm is validated using real traffic data of two existing intersections.
@highlight Various market penetration rates of CVs are investigated.
@highlight The results show a considerable reduction in rear end traffic conflicts.
