 Understanding who heeds the driving related COVID 19 restrictions is critical for assisting public health professionals improve response to this and future pandemic events . The purpose of the current study was to characterize driving behavior changes among adolescents as a function of COVID 19 restrictions . It was hypothesized that adolescent driving would be reduced by COVID 19 restrictions especially for younger teens non minorities females non working teens and those with higher prosocial tendencies . Participants were licensed drivers in REACT a longitudinal study of adolescent driving attention . Upon enrollment in REACT drivers were required to be age 16 or 18 have been issued a drivers license within the last two weeks and be fluent in written spoken English . The current observational cohort study was of drivers reporting driving exposure between February 8 and April 22 2020 . Linear mixed effects models estimated differences in driving changes between COVID 19 periods . Results indicated a decrease across pre COVID 19 period in days driven per week and vehicle miles driven was explained by the change of slope post COVID 19 restrictions . Post COVID 19 driving days per week decreased by 37 and VMD decreased by 35 . This decrease was lower in ethnic minorities older adolescents and employed adolescents . Those with greater dire prosocial tendencies showed greater post COVID 19 driving decline . Findings provide early evidence of COVID 19 restriction related adolescent driving changes suggesting older employed minority teens and teens with lower prosocial tendencies are less likely to reduce driving behavior . These observations provide a foundation for more extensive studies of adolescent drivers during various driving and contact restrictions and inform future public health campaigns for social distancing .

@highlight Post COVID 19 restrictions driving days per week decreased 37 among adolescents.
@highlight Vehicle miles driven in past two weeks decreased 35 among adolescents.
@highlight Decrease was lower among ethnic minorities older and employed adolescents.
@highlight Those with greater dire prosocial tendencies showed greater driving decline.
