 Automated vehicles are emerging on the transportation networks as manufacturers test their automated driving system capabilities in complex real world environments in testing operations like Californias Autonomous Vehicle Tester Program . A more comprehensive understanding of the ADS safety performances can be established through the California Department of Motor Vehicle disengagement and crash reports . This study comprehensively examines the safety performances documented since the inauguration of the testing program . The reported disengagements were categorized as control discrepancy environmental conditions and other road users hardware and software discrepancy perception discrepancy planning discrepancy and operator takeover . An applicable subset of disengagements was then used to identify and quantify the 5 Ws of these safety critical events who when where and what why . The disengagement initiator whether the ADS or human operator is linked with contributing factors such as the location disengagement cause and ADS testing maturity through a random parameter binary logit model that captured unobserved heterogeneity . Results reveal that compared to freeways and interstates the ADS has a lower likelihood of initiating the disengagement on streets and roads compared to the human operator . Likewise software and hardware and planning discrepancies are associated with the ADS initiating the disengagement . As the ADS testing maturity advances in months the probability of the disengagement being initiated by the ADS marginally increases when compared to human initiated . Overall the study contributes by understanding the factors associated with disengagements and exploring their implications for automated systems .

@highlight Who Human initiated disengagements are more likely than automated driving systems ADS initiated disengagements.
@highlight What why ADS initiated disengagements are mostly due to planning and hardware software discrepancies.
@highlight Where ADS initiated disengagements are more likely on streets and roads environments than on high speed facilities.
@highlight When System maturity has a positive effect on the likelihood of ADS initiated disengagements.
