 Cervical spine injury is a common result of traffic crashes and such injuries range in severity from minor Nationwide Emergency Department Sample and the Nationwide Inpatient Sample . It is estimated that there are approximately 869 000 traffic crash related cervical spine injuries seen in hospitals in the US annually including around 841 000 sprain strain injuries 2800 spinal disk injuries 23 500 fractures 2800 spinal cord injuries and 1500 dislocations . Because of a highly restrictive inclusion criteria for both crash and injury types as well as a very small sample size the NASS CDS underestimated all types of crash related cervical spine injuries seen in US hospital emergency departments by 84 . The injury type with the largest degree of underestimation in the NASS CDS was cervical disk injuries which were estimated at an 88 lower frequency than in the NEDS . National insurance claim data which include cases of cervical disk injury diagnosed both in and outside of the ED indicate that the NEDS likely undercounts cervical disk injuries by 92 and thus the NASS CDS correspondingly undercounts such injuries by 99 or more . Because of a limited sample size and restrictive criteria for both crash and injury inclusion the NASS CDS can not be used to estimate the number of crash related spinal injuries of any type or severity in the US . The most inappropriate use of the database is for estimating the number of spinal injuries resulting from low speed rear impact collisions as the NASS CDS samples fewer than 1 in 100 000 of the cervical spine injuries of any type occurring in low speed rear impact collisions .

@highlight There are no reliable estimates of the number of neck injuries occurring in the US traffic crashes.
@highlight Data from the NASS CDS were analyzed and compared with national hospital data in order to estimate injury frequencies.
@highlight There are approximately 869 000 traffic crash related cervical spine injuries seen in hospitals in the US annually..
@highlight The annual counts of whiplash and spinal disk injuries in the US likely exceed 1.2 million and 33K respectively.
