 This study assessed the effect of Chiles 2005 traffic law reform on the rates of road traffic deaths in children aged 014 years adjusting for socioeconomic differences among the regions of the country . Free access sources of official and national information provided the data for every year of the study period and for each of the countrys 13 upper administrative divisions with respect to RTD in child pedestrians and RTD in child passengers and the following control variables the number of road traffic tickets processed investment in road infrastructure poverty income inequality insufficient education unemployment population aged 014 years and prevalence of alcohol consumption in the general population . Interrupted time series analyses using generalized estimating equation methods were conducted to assess the impact of the TLR on the dependents variables . There was a significant interaction between time and Chiles 2005 TLR for a reduction in child pedestrians 0.87 95 confidence interval 0.79 0.96 and passengers RTD trends . In addition in child pedestrians RTD rates were affected by poverty income inequality and unemployment whereas in the case of child passengers poverty and income inequality were significant . Large scale legislative actions can be effective road safety measures if they are aimed at promoting behavioral change in developing countries improving the safety of children on the road . Additionally regional socioeconomic differences are associated with higher RTD rates in this population making this an argument in favor of road safety policies that consider these inequalities . The number of road traffic tickets processed and the investment in road infrastructure were not significant .

@highlight Legislative actions that promote behavioral change may reduce road traffic deaths among children aged 014 years.
@highlight Between region socioeconomic differences requires road safety policies focused on reducing the disparities.
@highlight Legislative actions and in country socioeconomic differences are relevant to reduce fatal outcomes in the study population.
@highlight The design of equity based road safety policies promoting behavioral change should be a priority.
