 Several factors may influence the decision to drink drive in young drivers such as the amount of alcohol consumed exposure to an in vehicle alcohol feedback device and subjective responses to alcohol . Understanding of their influence on DD is lacking and may be key for targeted intervention . This randomized controlled double blinded driving simulation experiment tested three main hypotheses young drivers are more likely to engage in DD with i lower alcohol dose ii lack of exposure to an in vehicle alcohol feedback device and iii lower subjective responses to alcohol intoxication . Interactions between the decision to DD and SR FB and sex were also explored . Males and females aged 2024 years old were randomly assigned to two conditions i alcohol dose and ii exposure to an in vehicle alcohol feedback device . Assessment of participants SR following alcohol intake was based upon two measures i subjective intoxication measured by the discrepancy between an objective measure of intoxication and their subjective estimate of intoxication and ii perception of capacity to drive safely under alcohol . Participants were then asked to make either a negative or positive decision to DD while confronted with time based contingencies related to their decision . Logistic regression and moderation analyses tested hypotheses . Approximately 60 of participants decided to DD . Higher odds of DD were found in participants reporting higher capacity to drive adjusted odds ratio Lower SR was found to be associated with a greater likelihood of the decision to DD in young drivers while exposure to an in vehicle FB device had no effect on DD . Importantly FB exposure appeared to disrupt the relationship between lower SR and the decision to DD signaling that FB may be selectively effective for young drivers possessing lower SR. Future studies are needed to clarify whether FB technology and other interventions can be targeted to deter DD in the young drivers most likely to benefit .

@highlight Approximately 60 of participants decided to engage in drink driving in simulation.
@highlight Perceived higher capacity to drive and male sex predicted decision to drink drive.
@highlight Higher capacity to drive predicted drink driving for participants not exposed to alcohol feedback.
@highlight Exposure to feedback disrupted the relationship between higher capacity to drive and drink driving.
