 The purpose of this study was to analyze car to cyclist accidents to determine the challenges for an active safety system on car to avoid accidents . Based on 2261 car to cyclist accidents provided by in depth accident databases accidents are analyzed more specifically from kinematic reconstructions . The main accident scenarios are determined crossing nearside crossing farside longitudinal turning and others . Proportion of brakes activation by the drivers before the impact was also given for those scenarios . The relative positions of the cyclists to the vehicle are analyzed from few seconds before the impact until the crash . It is observed that one second before the impact most of the cyclists were at a lateral distance smaller than 5m to the center line of the car and less than 20m ahead of car front . Finally the possible detection of the cyclist by implemented sensors in the vehicle and the possible triggering of an active safety system like an Automatic Emergency Braking or a Forward Collision Warning are studied . Required detection sensors parameters such as Field Of View and the detection range were analyzed relatively to the scenarios characteristics e.g . remaining time after cyclist appearance and before the collision differences between scenario types . Different sensor FOVs and detection ranges were analyzed to determine their possible rates of cyclist detection . The study concluded that a FOV of 60 and a range of 35m would detect most of the cyclists in car to cyclist accident scenarios . It was also concluded that in about 80 of cases the last time to trigger brake t

@highlight Cyclist accidents cases are allocated as follows 33 Crossing Nearside 22 Crossing Farside 5 Longitudinal and 34 for Turning Right and Left.
@highlight A 60Field Of View FOV total angle of 120 and a 35m range allow detecting most cyclists.
@highlight Little gain is observed for detection rates for last time to brake higher than 1s before collision.
@highlight 51 of cyclists could be detected up to 4s before the last time to brake with Field Of View FOV of 60.
