 Males frequently compete for access to mates sometimes at a cost to parental behaviour and self maintenance . Theory predicts that aggressive competition among females should be less common and intense due to a trade off between competition and future reproductive investment . However the consequences of female aggression across the reproductive cycle are unknown in many species . In this study we addressed four questions about female intrasexual aggression in the house wren . Does intrasexual aggression help females during periods of increased competition over breeding resources Do aggressive females have higher quality mates Do aggressive females invest less in reproduction Does female aggression affect offspring size and survival We experimentally increased competition over nestboxes in one year by evicting a subset of birds . Females that were more aggressive during previous simulated female intrusions protected more eggs from house wren ovicide which increased following our manipulation . In two other years we monitored the mating patterns and reproductive performance of females . Aggressive females had mates that provided more direct benefits in the form of nestling provisioning . They did not invest less in reproduction and in fact provisioned their nestlings more frequently . As a result aggressive females had heavier offspring at multiple points during development . The offspring of more aggressive females were also more likely to fledge . Overall female aggression appeared to have fitness benefits directly following an experimental increase in competition and throughout the reproductive cycle in nonexperimental years .

@highlight Aggressive females protected more eggs from ovicide during increased competition.
@highlight They did not invest less in egg production.
@highlight Aggressive females and their mates provisioned offspring more frequently.
@highlight Offspring of more aggressive females were larger at multiple points in development.
@highlight They were also more likely to fledge.
