 Dockless electric scooters have emerged as a popular micro mobility mode for urban transportation . This new form of mobility offers riders a flexible option for massive first last mile trips . Despite the popularity the limited regulations of E Scooters raise numerous safety concerns among the public and agencies . Due to the unavailability of well archived crash data it is difficult to understand and characterize current state quo of E Scooter involved crashes . This paper aims to shorten the gap by analyzing a set of reported crash data to describe the patterns of crashes related to E Scooter use . Specifically massive media reports were searched and investigated for constructing the crash dataset . Key crash elements such as rider demographics crash type and location were organized in an information table for analysis . From 2017 to 2019 there were 169 E Scooter involved crashes identified from the news reports across the country . Through the descriptive analysis and cross tabulation analysis the distinct characteristics of these reported crashes were highlighted . Overall there was a growing trend for the reported E Scooter involved crashes unevenly distributed among the States . The distribution of the crashes across different groups of users facilities time periods and severity levels also showed skewed patterns toward a subset of categories . The quantitative analyses also provide some supportive evidences for warranting the discussion on key issues including helmet use riding under influence vulnerable riders and data deficiency . This study highlights the importance of public awareness and timely developing safety countermeasures to mitigate crashes involving E Scooters .

@highlight One of the first studies to quantitatively analyze E Scooter crash characteristics.
@highlight Leveraged massive news reports to collect nationwide E Scooter crash data.
@highlight Analyzed key attributes and their interactions related to E Scooter crash outcome.
@highlight Discussed critical issues related to E Scooter crash risk and needed efforts.
