 Previous studies have acknowledged the impact of risk perception on safety behavior but were largely controversial . This study aims to clarify this conflict and the mechanism through which risk perception can have an impact on safety behavior . From the perspective of the dual attribute of the job demand concept in job demandsresources theory we posit that risk perception can be considered as a job hindrance or a job challenge depending on the context thereby resulting in a negative or positive impact on safety behavior respectively . The current research context is the construction industry and the hypotheses were tested using hierarchically nested data collected from 311 workers in 35 workgroups . Risk perception was demonstrated to be a job hindrance exerting a negative impact on safety behavior and safety motivation mediated this effect . In addition two dimensions of group level safety climatesupervisors and coworkerswere expected to alleviate or even reverse the detrimental effects of hindrance risk perception on safety motivation and on safety behavior via motivation . A moderation model and a first stage moderated mediation model were established respectively for testing the moderating roles of safety climate in the relationship between risk perception and safety motivation and in the indirect relationship of risk perception with safety behavior via motivation . Surprisingly contrary to the hypotheses when supervisors safety climate changed from a low level to a high level the impact of risk perception on safety motivation changed from positive to negative and the negative effect of risk perception on safety behavior via safety motivation was not alleviated but worsened . As expected for workers in a positive coworkers safety climate the negative effect of risk perception on motivation and the indirect negative effect of risk perception on behavior were both reversed to the positive . This indicates that coworkers safety climate helped to change perceived risk from a job hindrance to a challenge . This research contributes to workplace risk perception and safety behavior research by theoretically viewing risk perception as a dual job hindrancechallenge concept and proposing two competing hypotheses concerning the impact of risk perception on safety behavior . The empirical investigation confirmed the hindrance attribute of risk perception in the construction context . It provides a theoretical framework and empirical evidence for future research to synthesize the conflict risk perceptionsafety behavior relationship . We also contribute to the literature by pointing out the potential negative role of certain supervisor safety activities such as paternalistic leadership in influencing employee safety .

@highlight Hindrancechallenge demands provide a theoretical perspective on risk perception.
@highlight Risk perception can be a job hindrance or a challenge depending on the context.
@highlight Construction workers view perceived risk as a hindrance preventing safety behavior.
@highlight Supervisors climate worsens the negative effect of risk perception on behavior.
@highlight Workers climate reverses the negative effect of risk perception on behavior.
