 Real time crash potential prediction could provide valuable information for Active Traffic Management Systems . Fixed infrastructure based vehicle detection devices were widely used in the previous studies to obtain different types of data for crash potential prediction . However it was difficult to obtain data in large range through these devices due to the costs of installation and maintenance . This paper introduced a novel connected vehicle emulated data for real time crash potential prediction . Different from the fixed devices data CV emulated data have high flexibility and can be obtained continuously with relatively low cost . Crash and CV emulated data were collected from two urban arterials in Orlando USA . Crash data were archived by the Signal for Analytics system while the CV emulated data were obtained through the data collection API with a high frequency . Different data cleaning and preparation techniques were implemented while various speed related variables were generated from the CV emulated data . A Long Short term Memory neural network was trained to predict the crash potential in the next 510min . The results from the model illustrated the feasibility of using a novel CV emulated data to predict real time crash potential . The average and 50th percentile speed were the two most important variables for the crash potential prediction . In addition the proposed LSTM outperformed Bayesian logistics regression and XGBoost in terms of sensitivity Area under Curve and false alarm rate . With the rapid development of the connected vehicle systems the results from this paper can be extended to other types of vehicles and data which can significantly enhance traffic safety .

@highlight This paper utilizes novel connected vehicle CV emulated data to predict real time crash potential for arterials.
@highlight The CV emulated data are flexible to obtain. Different speed related variables are estimated based on the CV emulated data to depict continuous traffic conditions
@highlight The results proved the feasibility of using CV emulated data for real time crash potential prediction
@highlight The proposed methods can be applied to other types of vehicles
