 The connected environment provides surrounding traffic information to drivers via different driving aids that are expected to improve driving behavior and assist in avoiding safety critical events . These driving aids include speed advisory car following assistance lane changing support and advanced information about possible unseen hazards among many others . While various studies have attempted to examine the effectiveness of different driving aids discretely it is still vague how drivers perform when they are exposed to a connected environment with vehicle to vehicle and vehicle to infrastructure communication capabilities . As such the objective of this study is to examine the effects of the connected environment on driving behavior and safety . To achieve this aim an innovative driving simulator experiment was designed to mimic a connected environment using the CARRS Q Advanced Driving Simulator . Two types of driving aids were disseminated in the connected environment continuous and event based information . Seventy eight participants with diverse backgrounds drove the simulator in four driving conditions baseline perfect communication communication delay and communication loss . Various key driving behavior indicators were analyzed and compared across various routine driving tasks such as car following lane changing interactions with traffic lights and giving way to pedestrians at pedestrian crossings . Results suggest that drivers in the perfect communication scenario maintain a longer time to collision during car following a longer time to collision to pedestrian a lower deceleration to avoid a crash during lane changing and a lower propensity of yellow light running . Overall drivers in the connected environment are found to make informed decisions towards safe driving .

@highlight An innovative and comprehensive driving simulator experiment for examining driving behaviors in the connected environment.
@highlight Drivers maintain higher safety margins during car following and lane changing maneuvers in the connected environment.
@highlight Driver interactions with pedestrians and traffic lights in the connected environment are safer.
@highlight Communication delay and communication loss deteriorate driving performances and safety.
