 Numerous studies have developed intersection crash prediction models to identify crash hotspots and evaluate safety countermeasures . These studies largely considered only micro level crash contributing factors such as traffic volume traffic signals etc . Some recent studies however have attempted to include macro level crash contributing factors such as population per zone to predict the number of crashes at intersections . As many intersections are located between multiple zones and thus affected by factors from the multiple zones the inclusion of macro level factors requires boundary problems to be resolved . In this study we introduce an advanced multilevel model the multiple membership multilevel model for intersection crash analysis . Our objective was to reduce heterogeneity issues between zones in crash prediction model while avoiding misspecification of the model structure . We used five years of intersection crash data for the City of Regina Saskatchewan Canada and identified micro and macro level factors that most affected intersection crashes . We compared the fitting performance of the MMMM with that of two existing models a traditional single model and a conventional multilevel model . The MMMM outperformed the SM and CMM in terms of fitting capability . We found that the MMMM avoided both the underestimation of macro level variance and the type I statistical error that tend to occur when the crash data are analyzed using a SM or CMM . Statistically significant micro level and macro level crash contributing factors in Regina included major roadway AADT four legs traffic signals speed young drivers and different types of land use .

@highlight This paper developed the Multiple Membership Multilevel Model MMMM to estimate intersection crashes with both micro and macrolevel input factors.
@highlight The proposed MMMM can let researchers properly estimate crash frequencies along the boundary of study zones reduced boundary problem .
@highlight This paper demonstrated that the Multiple Membership Multilevel Model avoided both the underestimation of macrolevel variance and the type I statistical error that tend to occur when the crash data are analyzed using a Single Level Model or Conventional Multilevel Model.
