 Protected bike lanes separated from the roadway by physical barriers are relatively new in the United States . This study examined the risk of collisions or falls leading to emergency department visits associated with bicycle facilities and other roadway characteristics in three U.S. cities . We prospectively recruited 604 patients from emergency departments in Washington DC New York City and Portland Oregon during 20152017 who fell or crashed while cycling . We used a case crossover design and conditional logistic regression to compare each fall or crash site with a randomly selected control location along the route leading to the incident . We validated the presence of site characteristics described by participants using Google Street View and city GIS inventories of bicycle facilities and other roadway features . Compared with cycling on lanes of major roads without bicycle facilities the risk of crashing or falling was lower on conventional bike lanes and local roads with or without bicycle facilities or traffic calming . Protected bike lanes with heavy separation were associated with lower risk but those with lighter separation had similar risk to major roads when one way and higher risk when they were two way this risk increase was primarily driven by one lane in Washington . Risk increased in the presence of streetcar or train tracks relative to their absence on downhill relative to flat grades and when temporary features like construction or parked cars blocked the cyclists path relative to when they did not . Certain bicycle facilities are safer for cyclists than riding on major roads . Protected bike lanes vary in how well they shield riders from crashes and falls . Heavier separation less frequent intersections with roads and driveways and less complexity appear to contribute to reduced risk in protected bike lanes . Future research should systematically examine the characteristics that reduce risk in protected lanes to guide design . Planners should minimize conflict points when choosing where to place protected bike lanes and should implement countermeasures to increase visibility at these locations when they are unavoidable .

@highlight Protected bike lanes varied in their risk of cyclist crashes and falls.
@highlight Lanes with heavy separation from the road decreased risk.
@highlight Other protected bike lanes increased risk.
@highlight Characteristics that reduce risk should be examined systematically to guide design.
