 The purpose was to test a published model of body image in the bariatric surgery patient in the clinical office setting . A model was created based on clinical observations during field work and the literature . It focuses on five concepts of body image body attitude body checking appearance orientation perceived body size and perceived body space . Testing this model 3months after surgery is important because morphology changes rapidly influencing early changes in body image yet there is a paucity of research at this time point . For this study of 67 bariatric surgery patients sequential sampling was used . Body image and anthropometric measures were obtained at baseline and 3 months postoperatively . Established model testing criteria were used . Over 3months mean body mass index was significantly reduced . Mean body image was significantly improved regarding all concepts in the model except body checking . Body image improvement varied widely when individual responses were examined . The model was successfully tested . Data on the five concepts in the model provided a body image profile at 3months indicating individuals degree of improvement . Areas of non improvement in the early postoperative phase may signal the need for interventions like support or psychological counseling for patients who might be struggling with views of themselves after surgery . Preliminary recommendations are made regarding several of the instruments and their use clinically . Researchers should take into consideration the study s short 3 month time frame when designing future studies .

@highlight Between baseline and 3 months after surgery mean body image was significantly improved in 6 of 7 body image measures
@highlight Measurement of different concepts within the construct of body image provides an individualized body image profile at 3 months
@highlight Participants improved most regarding the concepts of perceived size and perceived space
@highlight Areas of non improvement may signal the need for enhanced nsupport or psychological counseling
