 The aim of the study was to develop a model that facilitates self determination in residential care . The right to decide on one s own life is self evident to most adult persons . Nevertheless dependency on others and the routine based care that sometimes is provided in residential care limit the residents possibilities of self determination . The study had a participatory research design using appreciative inquiry in focus group discussions with staff residents and care managers . The research process and the model were audited by two expert groups a scientific reference group and a dementia specialist reference group . A theoretical framework of relational autonomy and person centred care was also used . By combining practical and theoretical knowledge the model To make and execute decisions throughout life was developed . The core message of In my way at my pace with the help of you was reinforced by the categories See me as a competent person Show me professional consideration Meet me in a trustful relationship Give me opportunity to a meaningful and safe day Support me in being independent Let me have power over my own life and Help me to plan my end of life care . The model To make and execute decisions throughout life provides a base for a person centred approach to care . By reflecting on the core message and the different categories in the model staff can be inspired to see their own contribution to the residents self determination and find ways to facilitate it despite the many obstacles .

@highlight Being regarded as a competent person is essential for the possibility of self determination.
@highlight Self determination is possible even with limited cognitive resources.
@highlight To facilitate self determination the residents need to do things in their own way at their own pace with assistance from the staff.
@highlight Staff need to weigh their professional responsibility to protect the residents from harm against the residents right to self determination.
@highlight Self determination is possible at the end of life if the issue is raised in time.
