 There is much current as well as long standing concern that nurses need to be more involved in and also more adept at politics and political action for the advancement of the profession and for the health and wellbeing of the public . An historical scoping literature review was carried out to identify if as well as why when and how nurses become involved in government or meso level political action or politics and what is or has been gained through this involvement . Scoping literature review . Worldwide published literature . Nil . Research and non research articles on the topic were identified in a decade by decade search of the CINAHL database all relevant ones were retained and the per decade findings in them were compared over time . Only 25 research reports published 19882019 were identified . These studies were conducted in a few mostly developed countries . They provide a varied picture of nurse or nursing association involvement in political action and policy circles . In contrast the opinion and theory articles demonstrate increased nurse and nursing association involvement in as well as rising skill in political action and public policy engagement although primarily in the United States and Canada . Research and case reports are needed now in all countries to correct the view that nurses and nursing associations are apolitical and to gain information on how and why nurses and nursing associations become politically active and also determine what is gained through this activity .

@highlight Limited information exists on the success of nurse and nursing association political action and public policy engagement.
@highlight Limited information exists to understand why and how nurses nursing associations engage in political action public policy.
@highlight A synopsis of the findings gained through a systematic decade by decade scoping review of CINAHL database articles that provide evidence of nursing political action or participation.
@highlight North American nurses have been actively and successfully involved in politics and political action for over 25 years.
@highlight Research on the current nursing political activity policy involvement is needed to support current nurses and the next generation of nursing workforce nuring students in political arenas.
