 Triage predominantly done by nurses in the emergency department is globally accepted as essential to prioritise the acuity of patient care . Patients with low acuity illness often express frustration and disgruntlement with the triage process and long waiting times . Consequently some patients leave the emergency department unseen which may negatively affect their health outcomes . In order to change practice efficiently triage nurses should provide patients an opportunity to share their experiences . This paper deals with exploring the understanding patients emergency department triage experiences . A phenomenographic approach was used to explore and understand patients triage related experiences in an emergency department . Semi structured individual interviews were conducted with 10 purposively selected participants who were triaged as yellow or green in an emergency department in a public hospital in Botswana . Collaborative creative hermeneutic data analysis by 11 nurses working in the same context identified categories of description . Three categories of description emerged from patient experiences namely triage environment triage nurse and waiting times . Following data analysis the nurses reflected that they were not aware of the consequences in the way triage was currently conducted . Consensus was reached that they should move away from focusing on a biomedical model towards person centred triage which then underpinned the outcome space for triage in the emergency department . The reality in the emergency department is that patients needs wishes and expectations are neglected leaving them dissatisfied and disgruntled . Moving towards person centred triage may improve their overall experience of triage .

@highlight Triage should move away from the biomedical model to being person centred.
@highlight Allowing patients to voice their triage experiences would raise awareness of current practice and might influence change.
@highlight The study highlights the disconnection between patients and triage nurses and theneed for attention to patient needs.
