 Lack of knowledge about pain is a common barrier to effective pain management . Educational pain management programs directed to health care professionals can improve knowledge and attitudes about pain . However changing practice is more challenging but can be achieved with more targeted educational interventions within the clinical setting . The main objective of this study was to examine which of four separate pain management educational designs improved nurses knowledge and attitudes toward pain over time . Secondary objectives were to compare and contrast nurse s knowledge and attitudes toward pain before and after the educational intervention . This randomized controlled trial using a four Solomon group design . This study took place in Dubai Hospital Dubai Health Authority in United Arab Emirates between January 2019April 2019 . The sample consisted of 200 registered nurses who were randomly selected and assigned into four separate educational groups . Participants had at least one year of experience in Dubai hospital prior to data collection . paired The most important findings were the relatively low pre test knowledge scores among staff nurses and the significant improvement in knowledge for most test items following the educational intervention . Moreover the level of knowledge and attitudes were maintained over three months . The pain management program proved to be effective in improving nurses pain knowledge attitudes and assessment practices . Nurses in the experimental group increased their pain score significantly after the pain management program .

@highlight The most important findings were the relatively low pre test knowledge scores among staff nurses and the significant improvement in knowledge for most test items following the educational intervention.
@highlight The PMP proved to be effective in improving nurses pain knowledge attitudes and assessment practices.
@highlight A four group Solomon design was used to investigate the effects of a PMP on the knowledge and attitude of nurses.
@highlight The PMP was submitted to the accreditation committee for review and was granted four Continuing Medical Education CME hours.
@highlight Pain Management Program led by the author and another colleague from In service Education unit. N1 N1 Added ad advised by the journal 1. How the 4 hour session was presented 2. Were multiple sessions offered 3. Did the institution pay for nurses to attend and or time away from work 
