 The aim of this study was to investigate adherence to a posthypoglycemic eventmonitoring policy for inpatients with diabetes mellitus receiving insulin therapy . We analyzed point of care blood glucose data from noncritically ill inpatients receiving insulin therapy who had a hypoglycemic event from January 3 2017 through April 7 2018 . Blood glucose was measured until 2 sequential readings showed hypoglycemia resolution . An interval of 10 to 20min between measurements was defined as compliant with policy . We calculated the median time of each interval . We analyzed 896 episodes of hypoglycemia in 426 patients 698 events had only 1 hypoglycemic measurement 165 had 2 sequential hypoglycemic measurements and 33 had 3 sequential hypoglycemic measurements . Median times between measurements ranged from 18 minutes to 28 minutes . For patients with 1 hypoglycemic measurement less than 50 of follow up measurements were compliant . Similarly for those with 2 sequential hypoglycemic values less than 50 of measurements were compliant for those with 3 sequential hypoglycemic values less than 58 . Many instances of hypoglycemia had intervals between sequential glucose measurements that were longer than required by policy . These longer than expected intervals could place patients at undue risk for a prolonged hypoglycemic event . A better understanding of barriers to posthypoglycemic event management in inpatients is required . Inpatient nurses who are at the forefront of assessing and treating patients with hypoglycemia should be key partners in assessing the algorithms for hypoglycemia care .

@highlight Hospitalized diabetic patients with hypoglycemia have an increased risk of death.
@highlight Little is known about compliance with hypoglycemic eventmonitoring recommendations.
@highlight Time between glucose measurements exceeded that recommended by guidelines.
@highlight Diabetic inpatients may have sustained hypoglycemia due to delayed measurements.
@highlight More information is needed about barriers to timely hypoglycemic event monitoring.
