 To describe the structure and outcomes related to a nursing research and evidence based practice fellowship program in a Magnet designated pediatric medical center and explore perceptions of knowledge skills and barriers to evidence based practice and research . The Magnet Recognition Program is a model for nursing excellence that promotes nursing research and evidence based practice . Studies show that nurses need assistance in overcoming common barriers to scholarly inquiry including knowledge and skills confidence scarce time and financial support . The fellowship program was developed to reinforce institutional goals related to nursing scholarship and Magnet designation . A pre test post test repeated measures study assessed fellowship program outcomes immediately before after and at one year post program completion . Data collected included descriptive data related to the fellowship program participants and projects . The 49 item Developing Evidence Based Practice Questionnaire survey evaluated evidenced based practice knowledge and skills . Over a 5 year period 22 participants graduated from the fellowship program with a total of 9 completed projects and 1 ongoing study . The fellowship program helped to overcome some common obstacles related to skill and confidence in using research evidence and completing scholarly projects . Many improvements were sustained over time . The greatest barrier to nursing inquiry time needs continued attention as this was reported as an enduring limitation to nursing scholarship . The fellowship program reinforced and enhanced the organizational commitment to building and sustaining a passion for clinical inquiry through research and evidence based practice supporting the requirements of a Magnet designated hospital . Continued support is needed to garner nursing success .

@highlight Clinical nurses need support in conducting research and evidence based practice.
@highlight The Fellowship mitigated most nursing research and evidence based practice barriers.
@highlight Study participants reported time as an ongoing limitation to nursing scholarship.
@highlight The Fellowship program supported garnering Magnet designation.
