 To explore differences in self care maintenance management and confidence levels between American heart failure patients with and without executive dysfunction . Evidence indicates some aspect of cognitive impairment is prevalent in up to 75 of the HF patient population . Moreover cognitive impairment has been identified as a barrier to adequate self care contributing to poor outcomes . There is limited understanding of the role executive function a domain of cognitive performance has on self care behaviors for patients with HF . This secondary analysis examined the role of executive function measured by the Clock Drawing Test in relation to self care measures . The Self Care of Heart Failure Index v6.2 was used to measure self care maintenance management and confidence . Participants had a mean age of 75.112.5years identified as male with New York Heart Association class III . Executive function impairment was present in 28 of the sample . Comparison of self care maintenance and management scores between the two groups were not significant . However participants with executive dysfunction demonstrated an average self care confidence score of 48.623.3 while participants with no executive function impairment demonstrated a higher average self care confidence score of 61.518.4 . Differences in self care confidence scores between the groups were statistically significant . HF self care confidence is considered a moderator of self care behaviors . Understanding the influence executive function has on self care confidence may lead to a better understanding of those needing greater support with self care behaviors .

@highlight Cognitive impairment has been identified as a barrier to adequate self care contributing to poor outcomes.
@highlight There is limited understanding of the role executive function has on self care behaviors for patients with HF.
@highlight HF patients with executive dysfunction had significantly poorer self care confidence scores than those without dysfunction.
@highlight Understanding the role of executive function in HF may assist in identifying interventions to improve HF self care.
