 Well designed rigorously implemented instrumentation studies are essential to develop valid reliable pain assessment tools in non communicative palliative care patients . When conducting a pain instrumentation study a research team identified methodologic challenges surrounding informed consent eligibility criteria acute pain operational definitions patient recruitment missing data and study related training during a run in phase at the beginning of the project and during the conduct of the study . The team dealt with these challenges through identifying root causes implementing remedial measures and collecting data to demonstrate improvement or resolution . Effective strategies included obtaining Institutional Review Board approval for a waiver of informed consent modifying eligibility criteria ensuring that operational definitions and study procedures were consistent with clinical practice decreasing time from screening to data collection to improve recruitment increasing study nurse staffing by re budgeting grant funds focusing time and resources on high accruing clinical units revising processes to minimize missing data and developing detailed training for users of the instrument . With these multi pronged solutions the team exceeded the patient accrual target by 25 within the funding period and reduced missing data . While pain instrumentation studies in non communicative patients have similar challenges to other palliative care studies some of the solutions may be unique and several are applicable to other palliative care studies particularly instrumentation research . The team s experience may also be useful for funders and IRBs .

@highlight Palliative care researchers must identify challenges that disrupt their studies.
@highlight Instrument study challenges were eligibility consent recruiting missing data and training.
@highlight Informed consent waiver increased eligible patient accrual.
@highlight Re evaluation of communication ability before observational pain assessment is key.
@highlight Increase in study staff and systematic follow up minimized missing data.
