 The aim of this study was to explore the effectiveness of an oral hygiene program combined with home phone health promoting counseling for rural adults with metabolic syndrome . Metabolic syndrome is an important risk factor for cardiometabolic diseases . Evidence indicates that the poor oral hygiene and unhealthy lifestyles are closely related to metabolic syndrome . A prospective quasi experimental design involved a total of 136 community adults with metabolic syndrome living in two rural townships were clustered and conveniently assigned to intervention and control group between June 2017 and December 2018 . The primary outcome was the change in cardiometabolic biomarkers . The secondary outcome comprised changes in the health promoting behaviors . The intervention effect was assessed using a generalized estimating equation model . There were 80 and 56 participants in the intervention and control group respectively . The mean age was 56years and ranged from 33 to 70years . The intervention group exhibited a greater improvement in body mass index This study supports the use of an oral hygiene program combined with home phone counseling which offers more advantages than its counterpart . Considering the global epidemic of cardiometabolic diseases this is a community health nursing model worth to replicate and evaluate . Further study should consider innovative strategies to improve the awareness and adoption of a healthy lifestyle in residents with cardiometabolic risks .

@highlight Metabolic syndrome is an important risk factor for cardiometabolic conditions including diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
@highlight Evidence indicates that the poor oral hygiene and unhealthy lifestyles are close related to metabolic syndrome.
@highlight The oral hygiene program that combines home phone health promoting counseling benefits rural adults with cardiometabolic risks.
@highlight The proposed oral hygiene program can be used to develop health policies for preventing cardiometabolic diseases.
