 To describe the occurrence of opioid and benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms in a cohort of pediatric intensive care unit patients the characteristics of this group and patterns of withdrawal scoring observed during medication weaning . Patients in the PICU are a complex and vulnerable population . Opioids and benzodiazepines are routinely administered in this setting . Providers must be equipped to recognize and assess symptoms of narcotic and benzodiazepine withdrawal . A retrospective chart review was conducted to describe all patients admitted to the medical intensive care unit who received continuous infusions of morphine and midazolam during a one year period . Patient demographics diagnosis and presence of co morbidities were abstracted . The number of days on continuous infusions was measured along with Withdrawal Assessment Tool 1 scores and documented symptoms that could be associated with withdrawal . WAT 1 scoring ranges from 0 to 12 a WAT 1 score of 3 or higher is considered to indicate clinically significant withdrawal symptoms . Descriptive statistics were utilized to summarize demographic and clinical variables . Among 60 cases patient ages ranged 5weeks to 29years . Eighty percent of patients had a primary respiratory diagnosis and 88.3 had one or more co morbidities . Forty four patients had symptoms consistent with withdrawal . Thirty one percent of patients had a maximum WAT 1 score between 3 and 8 . The majority of patients had a history of opioid and or benzodiazepine exposure . The information learned highlights the need for ongoing conversation and continued study of how best to assess and manage withdrawal syndrome in pediatric critical care environments .

@highlight PICU patients are at risk for iatrogenic withdrawal syndrome IWS 
@highlight 73 of the MICU patients studied had symptoms documented during the weaning period that are often associated with IWS
@highlight Pediatric critical care nurses play a vital role in the assessment of IWS
@highlight The Nursing Science Fellowship provides mentorship by a PhD prepared nurse scientist to complete a clinical inquiry project
