 Post ICU rehabilitation is a challenging clinical issue for patients discharged from an Intensive Care Unit . Our exercise to rhythmic music intervention was designed to allow ICU survivors to self manage their exercise by following a personalized recorded exercise playlist . Our study reports the feasibility and acceptability of an innovative music intervention among ICU survivors enrolled in a randomized controlled pilot study . ICU survivors admitted in ICU for at least 5days and cognitively intact were randomly assigned to an exercise to rhythmic music group or an active control group . Participants in the music group were taught to self manage exercise by listening to a recorded playlist of instructions and music facilitated movements tailored to their musical preference and exercise ability . Participants in the control group were provided a brochure with exercise instructions . After 5days or at hospital discharge participants completed an 8 item acceptability questionnaire and were interviewed . Content analysis was conducted . 18 Participants were included for final analysis . Participants were 61.814.7years old predominantly male and Caucasian . Results demonstrated feasibility as the study team was able to meet the enrollment goal of 56 participants per month . Three themes related to general physical and psychosocial benefits were identified . Based on positive feedback the exercise to rhythmic music intervention was deemed acceptable . The exercise to rhythmic music intervention was feasible and acceptable suggesting that clinical trials with larger sample sizes should investigate the effects of the intervention on outcomes among ICU survivors .

@highlight ICU survivors experience persistent physical and psychological impairments resulting from their original illness.
@highlight ICU survivors can self manage their exercise by following a personalized music enhanced exercise playlist.
@highlight Study findings showed that the pilot randomized controlled trial was feasible and acceptable.
@highlight Participants in the exercise to rhythmic music group provided extensive positive narrative feedback post intervention.
@highlight The exercise to rhythmic music intervention is low cost easy to implement and patient centered.
