 The aim of this study is to assess the level of exercise self efficacy in a population with chronic diseases and identify the factors that could influence exercise self efficacy . Performing physical exercise is an important part of self care in chronic diseases . It is highly influenced by individual s self efficacy . However little attention has been given to the identification of the factors that could affect the exercise self efficacy among people with chronic diseases . This cross sectional study was conducted to assess the exercise self efficacy among people with chronic diseases using the Exercise Self Efficacy Scale . Demographic and exercise profiles were also collected . A total of eighty five people with chronic diseases from outpatients clinics participated in this study . The mean age of the participants was 5213.92 and more than half of them were females . The mean score of exercise self efficacy was 3921.55 . Education level was the main factor that correlated with lower levels of exercise self efficacy . This study is first to provide preliminary evidence about levels of exercise self efficacy and its associated factors among people with chronic diseases in Saudi Arabia . The level of exercise self efficacy is low in people with chronic diseases and this mainly associated with educational factor . Nurses have an important role to promoting exercise self efficacy through implementing a comprehensive plan that is patient s centered approach . However further research is needed to assess perception detect barriers and conduct intervention that aims to improve exercise Self efficacy .

@highlight Burden of chronic diseases are dramatically increasing worldwide
@highlight Physical exercise is an important part of self care in chronic diseases which influenced by individuals self efficacy
@highlight The level of exercise self efficacy is low in people with chronic diseases
@highlight Little attention has been given to identify the factors that could affect the exercise self efficacy in chronic diseases
@highlight Nurses can promote exercise self efficacy through implementing a comprehensive plan that is patients centered approach.
