 Monitoring of overweight and obesity among children by using different growth charts is fundamental to disease prevention and health promotion . To determine overweight and obesity for age among primary school children in Upper Egypt using the Egyptian and CDC growth charts . Cross sectional research design was used and conducted at 20 public primary schools in four Upper Egypt governorates . The sample size was 5300 children who selected by multistage sampling technique . Interview questionnaire included personal data and anthropometric measurements and Egyptian and CDC growth charts . The percentages of children being overweight and obese for age using Egyptian chart were low compared to CDC charts . According to Egyptian chart 5.2 and 5 from total studied boys and girls were overweight and obese respectively while in CDC growth chart 13.3 and 10.5 from total studied boys and girls respectively . It concluded that there were remarkable differences between CDC and Egyptian growth charts references in the classification of child overweight and obesity . The CDC growth chart evident much higher prevalence among the studied children compared to the Egyptian growth chart . Periodic development and reconstruction of national growth chart to represent the growth pattern of all geographical areas in Egypt . Also further researches needed to assess the differences of both international and national references .

@highlight The vast majority of overweight or obese children live in developing countries where the rate of increase has been more than 30 higher than that of developed countries
@highlight In a study conducted in Assiut the prevalence of overweight and obesity was 11.24 and 12.28 respectively
@highlight Many studies have showed that the estimated unhealthy growth status can vary when different growth reference standards are applied.
@highlight There were different types of growth references the prevalence of obesity was based on which type was used.
@highlight In recent study conducted in India to measure the prevalence of obesity among adolescents by using the three growth references CDC WHO and IOTF it found that CDC and WHO classified twice as many as obese adolescents as compared to IOTF
