 Digital health interventions based on tools for Computerized Decision Support and Machine Learning which take advantage of new information sensing and communication technologies can play a key role in childhood obesity prevention and treatment . We present a systematic literature review of CDS and ML applications for the prevention and treatment of childhood obesity . The main characteristics and outcomes of studies using CDS and ML are demonstrated to advance our understanding towards the development of smart and effective interventions for childhood obesity care . A search in the bibliographic databases of PubMed and Scopus was performed to identify childhood obesity studies incorporating either CDS interventions or advanced data analytics through ML algorithms . Ongoing case and qualitative studies along with those not providing specific quantitative outcomes were excluded . The studies incorporating CDS were synthesized according to the interventions main technology design type number of enrolled participants target age of children participants follow up duration primary outcome and main CDS feature and their outcomes . The studies incorporating ML were synthesized according to the number of subjects included and their age the ML algorithm used as well as their main outcome . The literature search identified 8 studies incorporating CDS interventions and 9 studies utilizing ML algorithms which met our eligibility criteria . All studies reported statistically significant interventional or ML model outcomes . More than half of the interventional studies were designed as randomized controlled trials . Half of the interventional studies utilized Electronic Health Records and alerts for BMI as means of CDS . From the 9 studies using ML the highest percentage targeted at the prognosis of obesity . In the studies incorporating more than one ML algorithms and reporting accuracy it was shown that decision trees and artificial neural networks can accurately predict childhood obesity . This review has found that CDS tools can be useful for the self management or remote medical management of childhood obesity whereas ML algorithms such as decision trees and artificial neural networks can be helpful for prediction purposes . Further rigorous studies in the area of CDS and ML for childhood obesity care are needed considering the low number of studies identified in this review their methodological limitations and the scarcity of interventional studies incorporating ML algorithms in CDS tools .

@highlight Computerized decision support interventions for childhood obesity were found to be useful for children and their carers.
@highlight Machine learning techniques have been found to generate useful knowledge to predict mainly or diagnose childhood obesity.
@highlight The integration of machine learning algorithms into electronic tools is needed to develop smart and impactful digital health interventions.
@highlight Further rigorous studies in the area of computerized decision support and machine learning applications for childhood obesity care are needed.
