 Manual delineation of vestibular schwannoma by magnetic resonance imaging is required for diagnosis radiosurgery dose planning and follow up tumor volume measurement . A rapid and objective automatic segmentation method is required but problems have been encountered due to the low through plane resolution of standard VS MR scan protocols and because some patients have non homogeneous cystic areas within their tumors . In this study we retrospectively collected multi parametric MR images from 516 patients with VS these were extracted from the Gamma Knife radiosurgery planning system and consisted of T1 weighted T2 weighted and T1W with contrast images . We developed an end to end deep learning based method via an automatic preprocessing pipeline . A two pathway U Net model involving two sizes of convolution kernel was used to extract the in plane and through plane features of the anisotropic MR images . A single pathway model that adopted the same architecture as the two pathway model but used a kernel size of 3 3 3 was also developed for comparison purposes . In addition we used multi parametric MR images with different image contrasts as the model training input in order to effectively segment tumors with solid as well as cystic parts . The results of the automatic segmentation demonstrated that the two pathway model outperformed single pathway model in terms of dice scores both of them having been trained using the T1W T1W C and T2W anisotropic MR images the optimal single parametric two pathway model was then trained using the T1W C images and the two pathway models trained using bi parametric and tri parametric images outperformed the model trained using the single parametric images because it showed improved segmentation of the non homogeneous parts of the tumors . The proposed two pathway U Net model outperformed the single pathway U Net model when segmenting VS using anisotropic MR images . The multi parametric models effectively improved on the defective segmentation obtained using the single parametric models by separating the non homogeneous tumors into their solid and cystic parts .

@highlight First employment of CNN segmentation on multiparametric MR images for a large VS cohort.
@highlight Two pathways U Net could effectively segment VS from anisotropic multiparametric MR images.
@highlight Segment VSs with both solid and cystic parts using multiparametric images.
