 Futurists have predicted that new autonomous technologies embedded with artificial intelligence and machine learning will lead to substantial job losses in many sectors disrupting many aspects of healthcare . Mental health appears ripe for such disruption given the global illness burden stigma and shortage of care providers . To characterize the global psychiatrist communitys opinion regarding the potential of future autonomous technology to replace key tasks carried out in mental health practice . Cross sectional random stratified sample of psychiatrists registered with Sermo a global networking platform open to verified and licensed physicians . We measured opinions about the likelihood that AI ML tools would be able to fully replace not just assist the average psychiatrist in performing 10 key psychiatric tasks . Among those who considered replacement likely we measured opinions about how many years from now such a capacity might emerge . We also measured psychiatrists perceptions about whether benefits of AI ML would outweigh the risks . Survey respondents were 791 psychiatrists from 22 countries representing North America South America Europe and Asia Pacific . Only 3.8 of respondents felt it was likely that future technology would make their jobs obsolete and only 17 felt that future AI ML was likely to replace a human clinician for providing empathetic care . Documenting and updating medical records and synthesizing information were the two tasks where a majority predicted that AI ML could fully replace human psychiatrists . Female and US based doctors were more uncertain that the benefits of AI would outweigh risks than male and non US doctors respectively . Around one in 2 psychiatrists did however predict that their jobs would be substantially changed by AI ML . Our findings provide compelling insights into how physicians think about AI ML which in turn may help us better integrate technology and reskill doctors to enhance mental health care .

@highlight Mental illness is a leading public health challenge and there exist large diagnostic and care gaps.
@highlight We measured opinions of physicians from 22 countries to see whether AI ML could replace the average doctor on key psychiatric tasks.
@highlight Only 3.8 of respondents felt future technology would make their jobs obsolete.
@highlight Only 17 felt that future AI ML could replace a human clinician for providing empathetic care.
@highlight Our findings provide compelling insights into how psychiatrists think about AI ML.
