 The decompressive laminectomy is a common operation for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis . The tools for grinding and drilling are used for fenestration and internal fixation respectively . The state recognition is one of the main technologies in robot assisted surgery especially in tele surgery because surgeons have limited perception during remote controlled robot assisted surgery . The novelty of this paper is that a state recognition system is proposed for the robot assisted tele surgery . By combining the learning methods and traditional methods the robot from the slave end can think about the current operation state like a surgeon and provide more information and decision suggestions to the master end surgeon which aids surgeons work safer in tele surgery . For the fenestration we propose an image based state recognition method that consists a U Net derived network grayscale redistribution and dynamic receptive field assisting in controlling the grinding process to prevent the grinding bit from crossing the inner edge of the lamina to damage the spinal nerves . For the internal fixation we propose an audio and force based state recognition method that consists signal features extraction methods LSTM based prediction and information fusion assisting in monitoring the drilling process to prevent the drilling bit from crossing the outer edge of the vertebral pedicle to damage the spinal nerves . Several experiments are conducted to show the reliability of the proposed system in robot assisted surgery .

@highlight State recognition provides more information and decision suggestions to the surgeon in tele surgery.
@highlight An image based state recognition assists in controlling to prevent the grinding bit from crossing the lamina.
@highlight An audio and force based state recognition assists in monitoring to prevent the drilling bit from crossing the pedicle.
@highlight Information fusion in feature and decision levels is realized to improve the performance of state recognition.
