 Probabilistic modeling of a patient s situation with the goal of providing calculated therapy recommendations can improve the decision making of interdisciplinary teams . Relevant information entities and direct causal dependencies as well as uncertainty must be formally described . Possible therapy options tailored to the patient can be inferred from the clinical data using these descriptions . However there are several avoidable factors of uncertainty influencing the accuracy of the inference . For instance inaccuracy may emerge from outdated information . In general probabilistic models e.g . Bayesian Networks can depict the causality and relations of individual information entities but in general can not evaluate individual entities concerning their up to dateness . The goal of the work at hand is to model diagnostic up to dateness which can reasonably adjust the influence of outdated diagnostic information to improve the inference results of clinical decision models . We analyzed 68 laryngeal cancer cases and modeled the state of up to dateness of different diagnostic modalities . All cases were used for cross validation . 55 cases were used to train the model 13 for testing . Each diagnostic procedure involved in the decision making process of these cases was associated with a specific threshold for the time the information is considered up to date i.e . reliable . Based on this threshold outdated findings could be identified and their impact on probabilistic calculations could be reduced . We applied the model for reducing the weight of outdated patient data in the computation of TNM stagings for the 13 test cases and compared the results to the manually derived TNM stagings in the patient files . With the implementation of these weights in the laryngeal cancer model we increased the accuracy of the TNM calculation from 0.61 to 0.76 . Decision delay may cause specific patient data to be outdated . This can cause contradictory or false information and impair calculations for clinical decision support . Our approach demonstrates that the accuracy of Bayesian Network models can be improved when pre processing the patient specific data and evaluating their up to dateness with reduced weights on outdated information .

@highlight We propose a formal expression of the up to dateness of clinical information.
@highlight We are preparing a model of up to dateness using cross validation.
@highlight We verify the methodology and validate the results using real patient cases.
