 Health utilities express the perceptions patients have on the impact potential adverse events of medical treatments may have on their quality of life . Being able to accurately assess health utilities is crucial when deciding what is the best treatment when multiple and diverse treatment options exist or when performing a cost utility analysis . Due to the emotional and other complexities that may exist when such data are elicited the values of the health utilities may be inaccurate and cause inconsistencies . Existing literature indicates that such inconsistencies may be very frequent . However no method has been developed for dealing with such inconsistencies in an effective manner . Given a set of health utilities this paper first explores ways for determining if there are any inconsistencies in their values . It also proposes a number of quadratic optimization approaches to best estimate the actual values when a set of initial health utility values are provided by the patient and certain inconsistencies have been detected . This is achieved by readjusting the initial values in a way that is minimal and also satisfies certain consistency requirements . The proposed methods are applied on an illustrative example related to localized prostate cancer . Data from some published studies were used to illustrate how a set of initial values can be analyzed . This analysis aims at readjusting them in a minimal manner that would also satisfy some key numerical constraints pertinent to health utility values . The numerical results and the computational complexities of the proposed models indicate that the proposed approaches are practical as they involve quadratic optimization modeling . These approaches are novel as the problem of addressing numerical inconsistencies in the elicitation process of health utilities has not been addressed adequately . The approaches are also critical in shared decision making and also when performing cost utility analyses because health utilities play a central role in determining the quality adjusted life years when making decisions in these healthcare domains .

@highlight Health state utilities are crucial in shared decision making SDM cost utility analysis as they are at the core of patient centered care.
@highlight Such data are hard to be elicited objectively and may possess certain numerical inconsistences when they are elicited from patients.
@highlight The proposed discrete optimization approaches offer the means to make initial utility values consistent by minimally adjusting them.
@highlight Data monotonicity is a major property to be satisfied. Illustrative examples based on real data are used to demonstrate the proposed methods.
@highlight The proposed approaches are novel and bridge a critical gap in patient centered healthcare and offer many possibilities for new research.
