 Microarray gene expression profiling has emerged as an efficient technique for cancer diagnosis prognosis and treatment . One of the major drawbacks of gene expression microarrays is the curse of dimensionality which hinders the usefulness of information in datasets and leads to computational instability . In recent years feature selection techniques have emerged as effective tools to identify disease biomarkers to aid in medical screening and diagnosis . However the existing feature selection techniques first do not suit the rare variance exists in genomic data and second do not consider the feature cost . Because ignoring features costs may result in high cost gene profiling this study proposes a new algorithm called G Forest for cost sensitive feature selection in gene expression microarrays . G Forest is an ensemble cost sensitive feature selection algorithm that develops a population of biases for a Random Forest induction algorithm . The G Forest embeds the feature cost in the feature selection process and allows for simultaneous selection of low cost and most informative features . In particular when constructing the initial population the feature is randomly selected with a probability inversely proportional to its associated cost . The G Forest was compared with multiple state of the art algorithms . Experimental results showed the effectiveness and robustness of the G Forest in selecting the least cost and most informative genes . The G Forest improved accuracy up to 14 and decreased costs up to 56 on average when compared with the other approaches tested in this article .

@highlight G Forest a cost sensitive feature selection for microarray data is proposed.
@highlight G Forest is multi criteria hybrid combination of GA and Random Forest.
@highlight G Forest was compared with three state of the art algorithms.
@highlight G Forest improved the accuracy up to 14 and decreased the cost up to 56 .
@highlight G Forest substitutes high cost features with less cost features.
