 Auscultation of the lung is a conventional technique used for diagnosing chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and lower respiratory infections and disorders in patients . In most of the earlier works wavelet transforms or spectrograms have been used to analyze the lung sounds . However an accurate prediction model for respiratory disorders has not been developed so far . In this paper a pre trained optimized Alexnet Convolutional Neural Network architecture is proposed for predicting respiratory disorders . The proposed approach models the segmented respiratory sound signal into Bump and Morse scalograms from several intrinsic mode functions using empirical mode decomposition method . From the extracted intrinsic mode functions the percentage energy calculated for each wavelet coefficient in the form of scalograms are computed . Subsequently these scalograms are given as input to the pre trained optimized CNN model for training and testing . Stochastic gradient descent with momentum and adaptive data momentum optimization algorithms were examined to check the prediction accuracy on the dataset comprising of four classes of lung sounds normal crackles wheezes and low pitched wheezes . On comparison to the baseline method of standard Bump and Morse wavelet transform approach which produced 79.04 and 81.27 validation accuracy an improved accuracy of 83.78 is achieved by the virtue of scalogram representation of various IMFs of EMD . Hence the proposed approach achieves significant performance improvement in accuracy compared to the existing state of the art techniques in literature .

@highlight TF representation analysis using EMD for normal crackles wheezes and rhonchi types of respiratory sounds is proposed.
@highlight Classification of IMF based scalogram images using Alexnet Convolutional Neural Network CNN architecture is carried out.
@highlight Enhancement in accuracy compared to existing wavelet approach is achieved.
@highlight Comparison with different optimization algorithms is examined.
