 The aim of this study is to compute similarities between patient records in an electronic health record . This is an important problem because the availability of effective methods for the computation of patient similarity would allow for assistance with and automation of tasks such as patients stratification medical prognosis and cohort selection and for unlocking the potential of medical analytics methods for healthcare intelligence . However health data in EHRs presents many challenges that make the automatic computation of patient similarity difficult these include temporal aspects multivariate heterogeneous and irregular data and data sparsity . We propose a new method for EHR data representation called Temporal Tree a temporal hierarchical representation which based on temporal co occurrence preserves the compound information found at different levels in health data . In addition this representation is augmented using the doc2vec embedding technique which here is exploited for patient similarity computation . We empirically investigate our proposed method along with several state of the art benchmarks on a dataset of real world Intensive Care Unit EHRs for the task of identifying patients with a specific target diagnosis . Our empirical results show that the Temporal Trees representation is significantly better than other traditional and state of the art methods for representing patients and computing their similarities . Temporal trees capture the temporal relationships between medical hierarchical data this enables to effectively model the rich information provided within EHRs and thus the identification of similar patients .

@highlight Temporal Tree explicitly models EHRs properties such as temporality multivariaty.
@highlight Temporal Tree captures the compound information based on temporal co occurrence.
@highlight Temporal Tree is useful to compute the similarity between patients.
@highlight The effectiveness of Temporal Tree is evaluated on task of diagnosis prediction.
@highlight Temporal Tree is valuable for representation learning and embedded representations.
