 Distant recurrence of breast cancer results in high lifetime risks and low 5 year survival rates . Early prediction of distant recurrent breast cancer could facilitate intervention and improve patients life quality . In this study we designed an EHR based predictive model to estimate the distant recurrent probability of breast cancer patients . We studied the pathology reports and progress notes of 6 447 patients who were diagnosed with breast cancer at Northwestern Memorial Hospital between 2001 and 2015 . Clinical notes were mapped to Concept unified identifiers using natural language processing tools . Bag of words and pre trained embedding were employed to vectorize words and CUI sequences . These features integrated with clinical features from structured data were downstreamed to conventional machine learning classifiers and Knowledge guided Convolutional Neural Network . The best configuration of our model yielded an AUC of 0.888 and an F1 score of 0.5 . Our work provides an automated method to predict breast cancer distant recurrence using natural language processing and deep learning approaches . We expect that through advanced feature engineering better predictive performance could be achieved .

@highlight Integration of clinical notes concept identifiers and structural clinical features improves the performance of distant breast cancer recurrence prediction using Machine Learning and yields high AUC of over 0.88.
@highlight Knowledge guided convolutional neural network outperforms conventional Machine Learning configurations on the task of distant breast cancer recurrence prediction and yields high f1 score of 0.50.
@highlight Natural Language Processing techniques including Bag of Word Metamap word and entity embedding are employed to represent progress notes and pathology reports.
@highlight Detailed report review and error analysis detect common caveats of using clinical notes for prediction of cancer recurrence which could inspire future investments.
