 Blood glycemic control is crucial for minimizing severe side effects in diabetes mellitus . Currently two opposing treatment approaches exist in formulaic methods insulin care is calculated by parameter based computation which are fixed by the medical team based on the history of a tested patient blood glucose levels . Alternatively closed loop methods test glycemic level via sensors and provide insulin boluses based on sensor data thus ignoring other medical information . Unlike the body both these systems are reactive chasing insulin dosage based on fluctuating BGL resulting in significant fluctuations of glucose values rather than the relatively flat profile normal to the body s glycemic control . Extended periods of these fluctuations particularly high BGLs result in vascular and organ epithelial damage which increases comorbidities and is ultimately life threatening . We propose an individualized treatment scheme based on machine learning artificial intelligence which combines the best of both approaches and is tailored to the individual . We model patient reaction to insulin treatment as Markov decision process thus allowing the system to find a unique individualized and dynamically updating insulin care policy that would lead to flat blood glucose profiles in target areas . We incorporate an individualized health reward function preferably from the medical team describing a grading scheme of BGL tailored to the patient for even more precise glycemic control . The solution to MDP is found via reinforcement learning which yields an individualized optimal insulin care policy . This policy can prevent hypoglycemia minimize high glucose duration and glycemic fluctuations . It can be further updated as the patient undergoes environmental changes . Significantly our method provides the care team a constantly updated patient model allowing them to better understand and support the patient .

@highlight We present a diabetes control based on a stochastic model of blood glucose level BGL .
@highlight We introduce the health reward function HRF which numerically grades a BGL.
@highlight HRF and the stochastic model give rise to a Markov Decision Process MDP .
@highlight The solution to MDP provides an optimal policy which leads to healthy simulated BGL.
@highlight The method is equally effective for non standard and rare diabetic patients.
