 Obstetric ultrasound examination of physiological parameters has been mainly used to estimate the fetal weight during pregnancy and baby weight before labour to monitor fetal growth and reduce prenatal morbidity and mortality . However the problem is that ultrasound estimation of fetal weight is subject to populations difference strict operating requirements for sonographers and poor access to ultrasound in low resource areas . Inaccurate estimations may lead to negative perinatal outcomes . This study aims to predict fetal weight at varying gestational age in the absence of ultrasound examination within a certain accuracy . We consider that machine learning can provide an accurate estimation for obstetricians alongside traditional clinical practices as well as an efficient and effective support tool for pregnant women for self monitoring . We present a robust methodology using a data set comprising 4212 intrapartum recordings . The cubic spline function is used to fit the curves of several key characteristics that are extracted from ultrasound reports . A number of simple and powerful machine learning algorithms are trained and their performance is evaluated with real test data . We also propose a novel evaluation performance index called the intersection over union for our study . The results are encouraging using an ensemble model consisting of Random Forest XGBoost and LightGBM algorithms . The experimental results show the loU between predicted range of fetal weight at any gestational age that is given by the ensemble model and ultrasound respectively . The machine learning based approach applied in our study is able to predict with a high accuracy fetal weight at varying gestational age in the absence of ultrasound examination .

@highlight Develop a robust methodology to predict fetal weight at varying gestational age in the absence of ultrasound examination.
@highlight Establish a dataset consisting of 4212 clinical records based on the electronic health record of pregnant women from a large hospital in China.
@highlight Establish a temporal relationship between the gestational age and the main characteristics of fetal growth on Chinese population.
@highlight Construct an ensemble learning model based on three machine learning algorithms which is optimised in parallel via a multi parameter genetic algorithm.
@highlight Prove to be an accurate estimation tool for obstetricians alongside traditional clinical practices as well as an efficient and effective support tool for pregnant women for self monitoring.
