 Medical knowledge graph is attracting attention from both academic and healthcare industry due to its power in intelligent healthcare applications . In this paper we introduce a systematic approach to build medical KG from electronic medical records with evaluation by both technical experiments and end to end application examples . The original data set contains 16 217 270 de identified clinical visit data of 3 767 198 patients . The KG construction procedure includes 8 steps which are data preparation entity recognition entity normalization relation extraction property calculation graph cleaning related entity ranking and graph embedding respectively . We propose a novel quadruplet structure to represent medical knowledge instead of the classical triplet in KG . A novel related entity ranking function considering probability specificity and reliability is proposed . Besides probabilistic translation on hyperplanes algorithm is used to learn graph embedding for the generated KG . A medical KG with 9 entity types including disease symptom etc . was established which contains 22 508 entities and 579 094 quadruplets . Compared with term frequency inverse document frequency method the normalized discounted cumulative gain The established systematic procedure can efficiently construct a high quality medical KG from large scale EMRs . The proposed ranking function PSR achieves the best performance under all relations and the disease clustering result validates the efficacy of the learned embedding vector as entitys semantic representation . Moreover the obtained KG finds many successful applications due to its statistics based quadruplet .

@highlight This paper proposes a systematic approach to construct medical KG from EMRs.
@highlight The constructed KG contains 9 entity types totally 22 508 entities and 579 094 quadruplets.
@highlight Quadruplet structure is proposed to represent a fact in the real world KG.
@highlight The proposed ranking function PSR achieves the best performance under all relations.
@highlight The obtained KG is successfully applied to several practical applications.
