 Automated skin lesion analysis is one of the trending fields that has gained attention among the dermatologists and health care practitioners . Skin lesion restoration is an essential pre processing step for lesion enhancements for accurate automated analysis and diagnosis by both dermatologists and computer aided diagnosis tools . Hair occlusion is one of the most popular artifacts in dermatoscopic images . It can negatively impact the skin lesions diagnosis by both dermatologists and automated computer diagnostic tools . Digital hair removal is a non invasive method for image enhancement for decrease the hair occlusion artifact in previously captured images . Several hair removal methods were proposed for skin delineation and removal without standardized benchmarking techniques . Manual annotation is one of the main challenges that hinder the validation of these proposed methods on a large number of images or against benchmarking datasets for comparison purposes . In the presented work we propose a photo realistic hair simulator based on context aware image synthesis using image to image translation techniques via conditional adversarial generative networks for generation of different hair occlusions in skin images along with ground truth mask for hair location . Hair occluded image is synthesized using the latent structure of any input hair free image by deep encoding the input image into a latent vector of features . The locations of required hair are highlighted using white pixels on the input image . Then these deep encoded features are used to reconstruct the synthetic highly realistic hair occluded image . Besides we explored using three loss functions including

@highlight A novel benchmarking technique for digital hair removal using generative adversarial networks.
@highlight The hair is synthesized and embedded into the pre defined regions according to an arbitrary mask.
@highlight Different loss functions have been investigated to achieve high photo realism and seamless blending.
