 Electronic medical records contain a wealth of knowledge that can be used to assist doctors in making clinical decisions like disease diagnosis . Constructing a medical knowledge network to link medical concepts in EMRs is an effective way to manage this knowledge . The quality of the diagnostic result made by MKN based clinical decision support system depends on the accuracy of medical knowledge and the completeness of the network . However collecting knowledge is a long lasting and cumulative process which means its hard to construct a complete MKN with limited data . This study was conducted with the objective of developing an expandable EMR based MKN to enhance capabilities in making an initial clinical diagnosis . A network of symptom indicate disease knowledge in 992 Chinese EMRs was manually constructed as Original MKN and an incremental expansion framework was applied to it to obtain an expandable MKN based on new CEMRs . The framework was composed by integrating external knowledge extracted from the medical information websites and mining potential knowledge with new EMRs . The framework also adopts a diagnosis driven learning method to estimate the effectiveness of each knowledge in clinical practice . Experimental results indicate that our expanded MKN achieves a precision of 0.837 for a recall of 0.719 in clinical diagnosis which outperforms Original MKN and four classical machine learning methods . Furthermore both external medical knowledge and potential medical knowledge benefit MKN expansion and disease diagnosis . The proposed incremental expansion framework sustains the MKN learning new knowledge .

@highlight An incremental expansion framework is presented to enrich medical knowledge in both amount and variety.
@highlight Integrating multi source knowledge to incorporate external knowledge in websites.
@highlight Mining potential knowledge with new EMRs based on Katz index.
@highlight A diagnosis driven learning method for updating knowledge weights.
