 An electronic medical record is a rich source of clinical information for medical studies . Each physician usually has his or her own way to describe a patient s diagnosis . This results in many different ways to describe the same disease which produces a large number of informal nonstandard diagnoses in EMRs . The Tenth Revision of International Classification of Diseases is a medical classification list of codes for diagnoses . Automated ICD 10 code assignment of the nonstandard diagnosis is an important way to improve the quality of the medical study . However manual coding is expensive time consuming and inefficient . Moreover terminology in the standard diagnostic library comprises approximately 23 000 subcategory codes . Classifying the entire set of subcategory codes is extremely challenging . ICD 10 codes in the standard diagnostic library are organized hierarchically and each category code relates to several or dozens of subcategory codes . Based on the hierarchical structure of the ICD 10 code we propose a two stage ICD 10 code assignment framework which examines the entire category codes and searches the subcategory codes under the specific category code . Furthermore since medical coding datasets are plagued with a training data sparsity issue we introduce more supervised information to overcome this issue . Compared with the method that searches within approximately 23 000 subcategory codes our approach requires examination of a considerably reduced number of codes . Extensive experiments show that our framework can improve the performance of the automated code assignment .

@highlight We propose a two stage code assignment framework based on the hierarchical structure of the ICD 10 code which can improve the performance of the automated code assignment.
@highlight We propose a text matching model called DNMM which can produce a satisfying matching result to enhance the assignment of the ICD 10 codes.
@highlight We propose an approach to overcome the training data sparsity issue by introducing more supervised information.
@highlight The evaluation results show that our proposed framework achieves good performance.
