 Emergency Departments modern triage systems implemented worldwide are solely based upon medical knowledge and experience . This is a limitation of these systems since there might be hidden patterns that can be explored in big volumes of clinical historical data . Intelligent techniques can be applied to these data to develop clinical decision support systems thereby providing the health professionals with objective criteria . Therefore it is of foremost importance to identify what has been hampering the application of such systems for ED triage . The objective of this paper is to assess how intelligent CDSS for triage have been contributing to the improvement of quality of care in the ED as well as to identify the challenges they have been facing regarding implementation . We applied a standard scoping review method with the manual search of 6 digital libraries namely ScienceDirect IEEE Xplore Google Scholar Springer MedlinePlus and Web of Knowledge . Search queries were created and customized for each digital library in order to acquire the information . The core search consisted of searching in the papers title abstract and key words for the topics triage emergency department emergency room and concepts within the field of intelligent systems . From the review search we found that logistic regression was the most frequently used technique for model design and the area under the receiver operating curve the most frequently used performance measure . Beside triage priority the most frequently used variables for modelling were patients age gender vital signs and chief complaints . The main contributions of the selected papers consisted in the improvement of a patient s prioritization prediction of need for critical care hospital or Intensive Care Unit admission ED Length of Stay and mortality from information available at the triage . In the papers where CDSS were validated in the ED the authors found that there was an improvement in the health professionals decision making thereby leading to better clinical management and patients outcomes . However we found that more than half of the studies lacked this implementation phase . We concluded that for these studies it is necessary to validate the CDSS and to define key performance measures in order to demonstrate the extent to which incorporation of CDSS at triage can actually improve care .

@highlight Contributions ranged from improved triage to prediction of need for critical care.
@highlight Several studies lack the implementation phase of their CDSS.
@highlight Where validated the intelligent CDSS improved health professionals decision making.
@highlight It is necessary to assess the impact of intelligent triage CDSS in quality of care.
