 Pregnancy is a complex process and the prediction of premature birth is uncertain . Many researchers are exploring non invasive approaches to enhance its predictability . Currently the ElectroHysteroGram and Tocography signal are a real time and non invasive technology which can be employed to predict preterm birth . For this purpose sparse autoencoder based deep neural network is developed . The deep neural network has three layers including a stacked sparse autoencoder network with two hidden layers and one final softmax layer . To this end the bursts of all 26 recordings of the publicly available TPEHGT DS database corresponding to uterine contraction intervals and non contraction intervals were manually segmented . 20 features were extracted by two feature extraction algorithms including sample entropy and wavelet entropy . Afterwards the SSAE network is adopted to learn high level features from raw features by unsupervised learning . The softmax layer is added at the top of the SSAE network for classification . In order to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method this study used 10 fold cross validation and four indicators to evaluate classification performance . Experimental research results display that the performance of deep neural network can achieve Sensitivity of 98.2 Specificity of 97.74 and Accuracy of 97.9 in the publicly TPEHGT DS database . The performance of deep neural network outperforms the comparison models including deep belief networks and hierarchical extreme learning machine . Finally experimental research results reveal that the proposed method could be valid applied to semi automatic identification of term and preterm uterine recordings .

@highlight To develop a new and improved method for the semi automatic prediction of preterm birth.
@highlight To characterize the uterine records of TPEHGT DS database in terms sample entropy and Wavelet entropy.
@highlight To demonstrate high level features extraction based on SSAE network is effective.
@highlight To evaluate the classification performance of the new method using the newly TPEHGT DS database.
