 Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide . Prognosis of lung cancer plays a crucial role in the clinical decision making process to optimize the treatment for patients . Most of the existing data driven prognostic prediction models explore the relations between patients characteristics and outcomes at a specific time interval . Although valuable they neglect the relations between long term and short term prognoses and thus may limit the prediction performance . In this study we present a novel prognostic prediction approach for postoperative NSCLC patients . Specifically we formulate the learning objective function by exploiting the relations between long term and short term prognoses via a long short term relational regularization . The regularization term is composed of two parts i.e . the similarities between prognoses measured by patients outcomes and the We evaluate the proposed model on a clinical dataset containing 693 consecutive postoperative NSCLC patients with more than 5 year follow up from 2006 to 2015 . Our best models achieve 0.743 0.709 and 0.746 AUCs for 1 year 3 year and 5 year survival prediction 0.696 0.724 and 0.736 AUCs for 1 year 3 year and 5 year recurrence prediction respectively . The experimental results show the efficiency of our proposed model in improving the performances on 1 year prognostic prediction in comparison with benchmark models . By comparing with the model without the long short term relational regularization the proposed model extracts more consistent critical risk factors for both long term and short term prognoses and contains fewer unreasonable risk factors under the clinicians review . We conclude that the proposed model can effectively exploit the relations between long term and short term prognoses . And the risk factors recognized by the proposed model have the potentials for further prognostic prediction of postoperative non small cell lung cancer patients .

@highlight LSTRR is a regularization term designed to exploit the relations between short and long term prognoses.
@highlight The model with LSTRR achieves better AUC values for short term prognostic prediction.
@highlight Risk factors recognized by the model with LSTRR are more consistent for both short and long term prognoses.
@highlight Less unreasonable risk factors are recognized using LSTRR under the in depth review of clinical experts.
