 Colorectal cancer has a great incidence rate worldwide but its early detection significantly increases the survival rate . Colonoscopy is the gold standard procedure for diagnosis and removal of colorectal lesions with potential to evolve into cancer and computer aided detection systems can help gastroenterologists to increase the adenoma detection rate one of the main indicators for colonoscopy quality and predictor for colorectal cancer prevention . The recent success of deep learning approaches in computer vision has also reached this field and has boosted the number of proposed methods for polyp detection localization and segmentation . Through a systematic search 35 works have been retrieved . The current systematic review provides an analysis of these methods stating advantages and disadvantages for the different categories used comments seven publicly available datasets of colonoscopy images analyses the metrics used for reporting and identifies future challenges and recommendations . Convolutional neural networks are the most used architecture together with an important presence of data augmentation strategies mainly based on image transformations and the use of patches . End to end methods are preferred over hybrid methods with a rising tendency . As for detection and localization tasks the most used metric for reporting is the recall while Intersection over Union is highly used in segmentation . One of the major concerns is the difficulty for a fair comparison and reproducibility of methods . Even despite the organization of challenges there is still a need for a common validation framework based on a large annotated and publicly available database which also includes the most convenient metrics to report results . Finally it is also important to highlight that efforts should be focused in the future on proving the clinical value of the deep learning based methods by increasing the adenoma detection rate .

@highlight Convolutional neural networks are the most used architecture.
@highlight End to end methods are preferred over hybrid methods.
@highlight Recall is the most used metric for detection and localization tasks.
@highlight Intersection over Union is highly used in segmentation.
@highlight A common validation framework including dataset and metrics is missing.
