 Frozen sections provide a basis for rapid intraoperative diagnosis that can guide surgery but the diagnoses often challenge pathologists . Here we propose a rule based system to differentiate thyroid nodules from intraoperative frozen sections using deep learning techniques . The proposed system consists of three components automatically locating tissue regions in the whole slide images splitting located tissue regions into patches and classifying each patch into predefined categories using convolutional neural networks and integrating predictions of all patches to form the final diagnosis with a rule based system . To be specific we fine tune the InceptionV3 model for thyroid patch classification by replacing the last fully connected layer with three outputs representing the patch s probabilities of being benign uncertain or malignant . Moreover we design a rule based protocol to integrate patches predictions to form the final diagnosis which provides interpretability for the proposed system . On 259 testing slides the system correctly predicts 95.3 of benign nodules and 96.7 of malignant nodules and classify 16.2 slides as uncertain including 19 benign and 16 malignant slides which are a sufficiently small number to be manually examined by pathologists or fully processed through permanent sections . Besides the system allows the localization of suspicious regions along with the diagnosis . A typical whole slide image with 80 00060 000 pixels can be diagnosed within 1 min thus satisfying the time requirement for intraoperative diagnosis . To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to apply deep learning to diagnose thyroid nodules from intraoperative frozen sections . The code is released at

@highlight We develop an automated rule based system to differentiate thyroid nodules based on deep learning techniques.
@highlight We present a rule based protocol to fuse patch predictions for the diagnosis of the thyroid frozen section slide allowing for the interpretability of the proposed system.
@highlight The automated diagnostic system obtains a precision of benign and malignant categories of thyroid nodules as 95.3 and 96.7 respectively.
@highlight The proposed method could facilitate pathologists in achieving an efficient and accurate diagnosis of thyroid nodules based on frozen sections.
