 Multimodal data analysis and large scale computational capability is entering medicine in an accelerative fashion and has begun to influence investigational work in a variety of disciplines . It is also informing us of therapeutic interventions that will come about with such development . Epilepsy is a chronic brain disorder in which functional changes may precede structural ones and which may be detectable using existing modalities . Functional connectivity analysis using electroencephalography and resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging has provided such meaningful input in cases of epilepsy . By leveraging the potential of autonomic edge computing in epilepsy we develop and deploy both noninvasive and invasive methods for monitoring evaluation and regulation of the epileptic brain . First an autonomic edge computing framework is proposed for the processing of big data as part of a decision support system for surgical candidacy . Second a multimodal data analysis using independently acquired EEG and rs fMRI is presented for estimation and prediction of the epileptogenic network . Third an unsupervised feature extraction model is developed for EEG analysis and seizure prediction based on a Convolutional deep learning structure for distinguishing preictal state from non preictal periods by support vector machine classifier . Experimental and simulation results from actual patient data validate the effectiveness of the proposed methods . The combination of rs fMRI and EEG iEEG can reveal more information about dynamic functional connectivity . However simultaneous fMRI and EEG data acquisition present challenges . We have proposed system models for leveraging and processing independently acquired fMRI and EEG data .

@highlight An edge computing framework for real time and ubiquitous processing of medical big data such as EEG iEEG and fMRI.
@highlight Multimodal data analysis method for localization and prediction of epileptogenicity using independently acquired EEG and rs fMRI data.
@highlight An unsupervised feature extraction model for identification of preictal and non preictal time intervals in electrographic data via CNN deep learning.
@highlight Multimodal analysis of rs fMRI and EEG via LSTM deep learning.
