 Machine learning approaches have been widely applied to medical data in order to find reliable classifiers to improve diagnosis and detect candidate biomarkers of a disease . However as a powerful multivariate data driven approach ML can be misled by biases and outliers in the training set finding sample dependent classification patterns . This phenomenon often occurs in biomedical applications in which due to the scarcity of the data combined with their heterogeneous nature and complex acquisition process outliers and biases are very common . In this work we present a new workflow for biomedical research based on ML approaches that maximizes the generalizability of the classification . This workflow is based on the adoption of two data selection tools an autoencoder to identify the outliers and the Confounding Index to understand which characteristics of the sample can mislead classification . As a study case we adopt the controversial research about extracting brain structural biomarkers of Autism Spectrum Disorders from magnetic resonance images . A classifier trained on a dataset composed by 86 subjects selected using this framework obtained an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.79 . The feature pattern identified by this classifier is still able to capture the mean differences between the ASD and Typically Developing Control classes on 1460 new subjects in the same age range of the training set thus providing new insights on the brain characteristics of ASD . In this work we show that the proposed workflow allows to find generalizable patterns even if the dataset is limited while skipping the two mentioned steps and using a larger but not well designed training set would have produced a sample dependent classifier .

@highlight A new workflow to face the unrepeatability problem in machine learning studies.
@highlight It uses an autoencoder to detect multivariate outliers with unknown distributions.
@highlight It uses the Confounding Index to find possibly misleading variables.
@highlight A case study on Autism Spectrum Disorders shows good results holding on new data.
@highlight Acquisition modalities turn out to be severely misleading in a neuroimaging study.
