 In the last few years hospitals have been collecting a large amount of health related digital data for patients . This includes clinical test reports treatment updates and disease diagnosis . The information extracted from this data is used for clinical decisions and treatment recommendations . Among health recommender systems collaborative filtering technique has gained a significant success . However traditional collaborative filtering algorithms are facing challenges such as data sparsity and scalability which leads to a reduction in system accuracy and efficiency . In a clinical setting the recommendations should be accurate and timely . In this paper an improvised collaborative filtering technique is proposed which is based on clustering and sub clustering . The proposed methodology is applied on a supervised set of data for four different types of cardiovascular diseases including angina non cardiac chest pain silent ischemia and myocardial infarction . The patient data is partitioned with respect to their corresponding disease class which is followed by k mean clustering applied separately on each disease partition . A query patient once directed to the correct disease partition requires to get similarity scores from a reduced sub cluster thereby improving the efficiency of the system . Each disease partition has a separate process for recommendation which gives rise to modularization and helps in improving scalability of the system . The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed modular clustering based recommender system reduces the spatial search domain for a query patient and the time required for providing accurate recommendations . The proposed system improves upon the accuracy of recommendations as demonstrated by the precision and recall values . This is significant for health recommendation systems particularly for those related to cardiovascular diseases .

@highlight Collection of cardiac patient s dataset at a renowned local hospital.
@highlight Improvisation in the steps of collaborative filtering to address scalability.
@highlight The execution of sub clustering to ensure fast similarity computation.
@highlight Involvement of expert cardiologists in the complete recommendation process.
