 Nowadays Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging has demonstrated to be a valid complementary diagnostic tool for early detection and diagnosis of breast cancer . However without a CAD system manual DCE MRI examination can be difficult and error prone . The early stage of breast tissue segmentation in a typical CAD is crucial to increase reliability and reduce the computational effort by reducing the number of voxels to analyze and removing foreign tissues and air . In recent years the deep convolutional neural networks enabled a sensible improvement in many visual tasks automation such as image classification and object recognition . These advances also involved radiomics enabling high throughput extraction of quantitative features resulting in a strong improvement in automatic diagnosis through medical imaging . However machine learning and in particular deep learning approaches are gaining popularity in the radiomics field for tissue segmentation . This work aims to accurately segment breast parenchyma from the air and other tissues by applying an ensemble of deep CNNs on 3D MR data . The novelty besides applying cutting edge techniques in the radiomics field is a multi planar combination of U Net CNNs by a suitable projection fusing approach enabling multi protocol applications . The proposed approach has been validated over two different datasets for a total of 109 DCE MRI studies with histopathologically proven lesions and two different acquisition protocols . The median dice similarity index for both the datasets is 96.60 and 95.78 respectively with

@highlight A novel approach for 3D fully automatic and accurate breast tissue segmentation from MRI data is proposed.
@highlight Our approach avoids parameters explosion by using a suitably modified 2D deep U Net CNN model on 3D data.
@highlight The method relies on a multi planar combination of deep CNNs by a suitable projection fusing approach.
@highlight The proposal was evaluated by using two different datasets on a total of 109 MRI DCE MRI studies with histopathologically proven lesions.
@highlight The proposal demonstrated to be able to cope with a multi protocol requirement.
