 Tracking symptoms progression in the early stages of Parkinsons disease is a laborious endeavor as the disease can be expressed with vastly different phenotypes forcing clinicians to follow a multi parametric approach in patient evaluation looking for not only motor symptomatology but also non motor complications including cognitive decline sleep problems and mood disturbances . Being neurodegenerative in nature PD is expected to inflict a continuous degradation in patients condition over time . The rate of symptoms progression however is found to be even more chaotic than the vastly different phenotypes that can be expressed in the initial stages of PD . In this work an analysis of baseline PD characteristics is performed using machine learning techniques to identify prognostic factors for early rapid progression of PD symptoms . Using open data from the Parkinsons Progression Markers Initiative study an extensive set of baseline patient evaluation outcomes is examined to isolate determinants of rapid progression within the first two and four years of PD . The rate of symptoms progression is estimated by tracking the change of the Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson s Disease Rating Scale total score over the corresponding follow up period . Patients are ranked according to their progression rates and those who expressed the highest rates of MDS UPDRS total score increase per year of follow up period are assigned into the rapid progression class using 5 and 10 quantiles partition . Classification performance against the rapid progression class was evaluated in a per quantile partition analysis scheme and in quantile independent approach respectively . The results shown a more accurate patient discrimination with quantile partitioning however a much more compact subset of baseline factors is extracted in the latter making a more suitable for actual interventions in practice . Classification accuracy improved in all cases when using the longer 4 year follow up period to estimate PD progression suggesting that a prolonged patient evaluation can provide better outcomes in identifying rapid progression phenotype . Non motor symptoms are found to be the main determinants of rapid symptoms progression in both follow up periods with autonomic dysfunction mood impairment anxiety REM sleep behavior disorders cognitive decline and memory impairment being alarming signs at baseline evaluation along with rigidity symptoms certain laboratory blood test results and genetic mutations .

@highlight Introducing machine learning techniques in the search for prognostic factors of rapid progression in PD.
@highlight Evaluate a comprehensive set of 601 baseline features as potential early prognostic factors.
@highlight Assess PD symptoms progression rate at 2 and 4years after baseline evaluation.
@highlight Quantile partition analysis and quantile independent classification frameworks are tested.
@highlight Non motor symptoms at early stages of PD are the main determinants for rapid progression.
