 Brain network parcellation based on resting state functional MRI is affected by noise resulting in spurious small patches and decreased functional homogeneity within each network . Obtaining robust and homogeneous parcellation of neonate brain is more difficult because neonate rs fMRI is associated with relatively higher level of noise and no prior knowledge from a functional neonate atlas is available as spatial constraints . To meet these challenges we developed a novel data driven Regularized Normalized cut method . RNcut is formulated by adding two regularization terms a smoothing term using Markov random fields and a small patch removal term to conventional normalized cut method . The RNcut and competing methods were tested with simulated datasets with known ground truth and then applied to both adult and neonate rs fMRI datasets . Based on the parcellated networks generated by RNcut intra network connectivity was quantified . The test results from simulated datasets demonstrated that the RNcut method is more robust to noise and can delineate parcellated functional networks with significantly better spatial contiguity and significantly higher functional homogeneity than competing methods . Application of RNcut to neonate and adult rs fMRI dataset revealed distinctive functional brain organization of neonate brains from that of adult brains . Collectively we developed a novel data driven RNcut method by integrating conventional Ncut with two regularization terms generating robust and homogeneous functional parcellation without imposing spatial constraints . A broad range of brain network applications and analyses especially neonate and infant brain parcellation with noisy and large sample of datasets can potentially benefit from this RNcut method .

@highlight RNcut generates robust functional parcellation on noisy dataset.
@highlight RNcut yields smooth boundaries of parcellated networks.
@highlight High functional homogeneity has been achieved for each parcellated network.
@highlight RNcut can be successfully applied to both adult and neonate populations.
@highlight Distinctive neonate intra network connectivity was found compared to that of adults.
