 The measurement of carotid intima media thickness in ultrasound images can be used to detect the presence of atherosclerotic plaques . Usually the CIMT estimation strategy is semi automatic since it requires a manual examination of the ultrasound image for the localization of a region of interest a fast and useful operation when only a small number of images need to be measured and an automatic delineation of the CIM region within the ROI . The existing efforts for automating the process have replicated the same two step structure resulting in two consecutive independent approaches . In this work we propose a fully automatic single step approach based on semantic segmentation that allows us to segment the plaque and to estimate the CIMT in a fast and useful manner for large data sets of images . Our single step approach is based on densely connected convolutional neural networks for semantic segmentation of the whole image . It has two remarkable characteristics it avoids ROI definition and it captures multi scale contextual information in the complete image interpretation due to the concatenation of feature maps carried out in DenseNets . Once the input image is segmented a straightforward method for CIMT estimation and plaque detection is applied . The proposed method has been validated with a large data set of more than 8000 images corresponding to two territories of the carotid artery common carotid artery and bulb . Among them a subset of 331 images has been used to evaluate the performance of semantic segmentation . The experimental results demonstrated that our method outperforms other deep models and shallow approaches found in the literature . In particular our CIMT estimation reaches a correlation coefficient of 0.81 and a CIMT mean error of 0.02 and 0.06mm in CCA and Bulb images respectively . Furthermore the accuracy for plaque detection is 96.45 and 78.09 in CCA and Bulb respectively . To test the generalization power the method has also been tested with another data set that includes images acquired with different equipment . The validation carried out demonstrates that the proposed method is accurate and objective for both plaque detection and CIMT measurement . Moreover the robustness and generalization capacity of the method have been proven with two different data sets .

@highlight A novel single step approach for automatic carotid artery image interpretation.
@highlight The method is also accurate and objective for CIMT estimation and plaque detection.
@highlight The proposed method is easily extensible to different CA territories.
@highlight The CIMT estimation and plaque detection have been evaluated in a very large data set.
@highlight The robustness and generalization have been proven with two different data sets.
