 Todays life assistive devices were playing significant role in our life to communicate with others . In that modality Human Computer Interface based Electrooculogram playing vital part . By using this method we can able to overcome the conventional methods in terms of performance and accuracy . To overcome such problem we analyze the EOG signal from twenty subjects to design nine states EOG based HCI using five electrodes system to measure the horizontal and vertical eye movements . Signals were preprocessed to remove the artifacts and extract the valuable information from collected data by using band power and Hilbert Huang Transform and trained with Pattern Recognition Neural Network to classify the tasks . The classification results of 92.17 and 91.85 were shown for band power and HHT features using PRNN architecture . Recognition accuracy was analyzed in offline to identify the possibilities of designing HCI . We compare the two feature extraction techniques with PRNN to analyze the best method for classifying the tasks and recognizing single trail tasks to design the HCI . Our experimental result confirms that for classifying as well as recognizing accuracy of the collected signals using band power with PRNN shows better accuracy compared to other network used in this study . We compared the male subjects performance with female subjects to identify the performance . Finally we compared the male as well as female subjects in age group wise to identify the performance of the system . From that we concluded that male performance was appreciable compared with female subjects as well as age group between 26 to 32 performance and recognizing accuracy were high compared with other age groups used in this study .

@highlight Electrooculogram based Human computer Interface is designed using deep learning.
@highlight Hibert Huang Transform based features are extracted.
@highlight Over 91 accuracy is achieved for all cases using Pattern Recognition Neural Network classifier.
