 Preventive and accurate assessment of bladder voiding dysfunctions necessitates measuring the amount of liquid encapsulated within urinary bladder walls in a non invasive and real time manner . The real time monitoring of urine levels helps patients with urological disorders such as Nocturnal Enuresis by preventing the occurrence of enuresis via a pre void stage alerting system . Although some advances have been achieved toward developing a non invasive approach for determining the amount of accumulated urine inside the bladder there is still a lack of an easy to implement technique which is suitable to embed in a wearable pre warning device . This study aims to develop a machine learning empowered technique to quantify to what extent an individual s bladder is filled by observing the filling voiding pattern of a patient over a training period . In this experiment a pulse echo sonar element is used to generate ultrasound pulses while the probe surface is positioned perpendicular to the bladder s position . From the reflected echoes four features which show sufficient sensitiveness and therefore could be modulated noticeably by different levels of liquid encased in the bladder are extracted . The extracted features are then fed into a novel intelligent decision support system known as FECOC which is based on hybridization of fuzzy inference systems and error correcting output codes . The proposed scheme tends to achieve better results when examined in real case studies .

@highlight The manuscript discusses a machine learning based technique for determining the level of liquid encased in urinary bladder.
@highlight The proposed method is trained over each individuals
@highlight pattern of the bladder and therefore is independent of gender BMI and level of obesity of a patient.
@highlight The method assumes the maximum capacity of the bladder is the amount of urine it contains when one feels the urge to void regardless of the size of bladder.
@highlight Four extracted features obtained via echoed back pulses of ultrasound are fed to a novel fuzzy error correcting output classifier to see which proportion of bladder is filled.
