 In todays world cardiovascular diseases are prevalent becoming the leading cause of death more than half of the cardiovascular diseases are due to Coronary Heart Disease which generates the demand of predicting them timely so that people can take precautions or treatment before it becomes fatal . For serving this purpose a Modified Artificial Plant Optimization algorithm has been proposed which can be used as an optimal feature selector along with other machine learning algorithms to predict the heart rate using the fingertip video dataset which further predicts the presence or absence of Coronary Heart Disease in an individual at the moment . Initially the video dataset has been pre processed noise is filtered and then MAPO is applied to predict the heart rate with a Pearson correlation and Standard Error Estimate of 0.9541 and 2.418 respectively . The predicted heart rate is used as a feature in other two datasets and MAPO is again applied to optimize the features of both datasets . Different machine learning algorithms are then applied to the optimized dataset to predict values for presence of current heart disease . The result shows that MAPO reduces the dimensionality to the most significant information with comparable accuracies for different machine learning models with maximum dimensionality reduction of 81.25 . MAPO has been compared with other optimizers and outperforms them with better accuracy .

@highlight Modified Artificial Plant Optimization algorithm MAPO has been discussed for detection of heart rate using fingertip video.
@highlight Various machine learning algorithms have been applied on Heart Disease dataset to calculate presence of heart disease.
@highlight The proposed MAPO shows better accuracies than other related works with the highest number of videos 84 out of 100 which has relative errors less than 5 .
@highlight It achieved the Pearson Correlation and Standard Error of Estimate as 0.9541 and 2.418 respectively while detecting heart rate.
