 According to a meta analysis of 7 studies the median number of patients with at least one adverse event during the surgery is 14.4 and a third of those adverse events were preventable . The occurrence of adverse events forces surgeons to implement corrective strategies and thus deviate from the standard surgical process . Therefore it is clear that the automatic identification of adverse events is a major challenge for patient safety . In this paper we have proposed a method enabling us to identify such deviations . We have focused on identifying surgeons deviations from standard surgical processes due to surgical events rather than anatomic specificities . This is particularly challenging given the high variability in typical surgical procedure workflows . We have introduced a new approach designed to automatically detect and distinguish surgical process deviations based on multi dimensional non linear temporal scaling with a hidden semi Markov model using manual annotation of surgical processes . The approach was then evaluated using cross validation . The best results have over 90 accuracy . Recall and precision for event deviations i.e . related to adverse events are respectively below 80 and 40 . To understand these results we have provided a detailed analysis of the incorrectly detected observations . Multi dimensional non linear temporal scaling with a hidden semi Markov model provides promising results for detecting deviations . Our error analysis of the incorrectly detected observations offers different leads in order to further improve our method . Our method demonstrated the feasibility of automatically detecting surgical deviations that could be implemented for both skill analysis and developing situation awareness based computer assisted surgical systems .

@highlight A new method for detect and identify surgical deviations.
@highlight Distinguishing between context and event deviations.
@highlight A method enabled to align multiple multi dimensional sequences.
