 The general publics attitudes demands and expectations regarding medical AI could provide guidance for the future development of medical AI to satisfy the increasing needs of doctors and patients . The objective of this study is to investigate public perceptions receptivity and demands regarding the implementation of medical AI . An online questionnaire was designed to investigate the perceptions receptivity and demands of general public regarding medical AI between October 13 and October 30 2018 . The distributions of the current achievements public perceptions receptivity and demands among individuals in different lines of work and different age groups were assessed by performing descriptive statistics . The factors associated with public receptivity of medical AI were assessed using a linear regression model . In total 2 780 participants from 22 provinces were enrolled . Healthcare workers accounted for 54.3 of all participants . There was no significant difference between the healthcare workers and non healthcare workers in the high proportion of participants expressing acceptance of AI but remarkable distributional differences were observed in demands and perceptions . High levels of receptivity demands and expectations were expressed among different age groups . The receptivity of medical AI among the non healthcare workers was associated with gender educational qualifications and demands and perceptions of AI . There was a very large gap between current availability of and public demands for intelligence services . More than 90 of healthcare workers expressed a willingness to devote time to learning about AI and participating in AI research . The public exhibits a high level of receptivity regarding the implementation of medical AI . To date the achievements have been rewarding and further advancements are required to satisfy public demands . There is a strong demand for intelligent assistance in many medical areas including imaging and pathology departments outpatient services and surgery . More contributions are imperative to facilitate integrated and advantageous implementation in medical AI .

@highlight The healthcare workers and non healthcare workers exhibited perceptional differences regarding safety validity trust and expectations of the implementation of medical AI in addition to differences in demands about desired improvements to AI.
@highlight The current achievements of medical AI have catered to the public and won their approval which is noteworthy given the high level of receptivity and demands expressed by the public.
@highlight There is a very large gap between public demands and current achievements.
