 Despite the expanding use of machine learning in fields such as finance and marketing its application in the daily practice of clinical medicine is almost non existent . In this systematic review we describe the various areas within clinical medicine that have applied the use of ML to improve patient care . A systematic review was performed in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines using Medline EBM Reviews Embase Psych Info and Cochrane Databases focusing on human studies that used ML to directly address a clinical problem . Included studies were published from January 1 2000 to May 1 2018 and provided metrics on the performance of the utilized ML tool . A total of 1909 unique publications were reviewed with 378 retrospective articles and 8 prospective articles meeting inclusion criteria . Retrospective publications were found to be increasing in frequency with 61 of articles published within the last 4 years . Prospective articles comprised only 2 of the articles meeting our inclusion criteria . These studies utilized a prospective cohort design with an average sample size of 531 . The majority of literature describing the use of ML in clinical medicine is retrospective in nature and often outlines proof of concept approaches to impact patient care . We postulate that identifying and overcoming key translational barriers including real time access to clinical data data security physician approval of black box generated results and performance evaluation will allow for a fundamental shift in medical practice where specialized tools will aid the healthcare team in providing better patient care .

@highlight The study of machine learning in clinical medicine is mostly limited to proof of concept approaches.
@highlight Barriers still remain in place which impede the prospective application of machine learning applications in clinical medicine.
@highlight Overcoming barriers to prospective implementation will likely lead to a fundamental shift in medical practice with the use of specialized tools aiding the healthcare team in providing better more personalized patient care.
