 In this paper we embed two types of attention modules in the dilated fully convolutional network to solve biomedical image segmentation tasks efficiently and accurately . Different from previous work on image segmentation through multiscale feature fusion we propose the fully convolutional attention network to aggregate contextual information at long range and short range distances . Specifically we add two types of attention modules the spatial attention module and the channel attention module to the Res2Net network which has a dilated strategy . The features of each location are aggregated through the spatial attention module so that similar features promote each other in space size . At the same time the channel attention module treats each channel of the feature map as a feature detector and emphasizes the channel dependency between any two channel maps . Finally we weight the sum of the output features of the two types of attention modules to retain the feature information of the long range and short range distances to further improve the representation of the features and make the biomedical image segmentation more accurate . In particular we verify that the proposed attention module can seamlessly connect to any end to end network with minimal overhead . We perform comprehensive experiments on three public biomedical image segmentation datasets i.e . the Chest X ray collection the Kaggle 2018 data science bowl and the Herlev dataset . The experimental results show that FCANet can improve the segmentation effect of biomedical images . The source code models are available at

@highlight We propose a fully convolutional attention network FCANet that enhances the feature representation of biomedical images by aggregating context information from long range and short range distances.
@highlight Lightweight space and channel attention modules are proposed. These modules can be embedded in any end to end network to improve the segmentation effect.
@highlight The segmentation effect of FCANet on three open datasets is improved including the Chest X ray collection Kaggle 2018 data science bowl and Herlev dataset.
