 Multichannel transcranial magnetic stimulation is a therapeutic method to improve psychiatric diseases which has a flexible working pattern used to different applications . In order to make the electric field distribution in the brain meet the treatment expectations we have developed a novel multi swam particle swarm optimizer to optimize the current configuration of double layer coil array . To balance the exploration and exploitation abilities three novel improved strategies are used in NMSPSO based on multi swarm particle swarm optimizer . Firstly a novel information exchange strategy is achieved by individual exchanges between sub swarms . Secondly a novel leaning strategy is used to control knowledge dissemination in the population which not only increases the diversity of the particles but also guarantees the convergence . Finally a novel mutation strategy is introduced which can help the population jump out of the local optimum for better exploration ability . The method is examined on a set of well known benchmark functions and the results show that NMSPSO has better performance than many particle swarm optimization variants . And the superior electric field distribution in mTMS can be obtained by NMSPSO to optimize the current configuration of the double layer coil array .

@highlight In order to optimize the electric field distribution in the brain to meet the treatment expectations of multichannel transcranial magnetic stimulation mTMS this paper presents a novel multi swam particle swarm optimizer NMSPSO to optimize the current configuration of coil array in mTMS.
@highlight Three improvement strategies are used in the NMSPSO algorithm to balance the exploration and exploitation abilities. These three strategies and their role are as follows a Information exchange strategy Guarantee the rational flow of information in the population. b Learning strategy Tradeoff between population diversity and convergence rate. c Mutation strategy Enable the population to quickly jump out of the local optimal solution.
@highlight NMSPSO algorithm is examined on a set of well known benchmark functions and the results show that the NMSPSO has better performance than many particle swarm optimization variants.
@highlight By optimizing the current configuration of the coil array in mTMS with NMSPSO algorithm the electric field can be focused at the target and the electric field focusing degree can be improved compared to several other PSO variant algorithms.
