 Deep learning has always been at the forefront of scientific research . It has also been applied to medical research . Hereditary spinocerebellar ataxia is characterized by gait abnormalities and is usually evaluated semi quantitatively by scales . However more detailed gait characteristics of SCA and related objective methods have not yet been established . Therefore the purpose of this study was to evaluate the gait characteristics of SCA patients as well as to analyze the correlation between gait parameters clinical scales and imaging on deep learning . Twenty SCA patients diagnosed by genetic detection were included in the study . Ten patients who were tested via functional magnetic resonance imaging were included in the SCA imaging subgroup . All SCA patients were evaluated with the International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale and Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia clinical scales . The gait control group included 16 healthy subjects and the imaging control group included seven healthy subjects . Gait data consisting of 10m of free walking of each individual in the SCA group and the gait control group were detected by wearable gait detection equipment . Stride length stride time velocity supporting phase percentage and swinging phase percentage were extracted as gait parameters . Cerebellar volume and the midsagittal cerebellar proportion in the posterior fossa were calculated according to MR . There were significant differences in stride length velocity supporting phase percentage and swinging phase percentage between the SCA group and the gait control group . The stride length and stride velocity of SCA groups were lower while supporting phase was longer than those of the gait control group . SCA group s velocity was negatively correlated with both the ICARS and SARA scores . The cerebellar volume and MRVD of the SCA imaging subgroup were significantly smaller than those of the imaging control group . MRVD was significantly correlated with ICARS and SARA scores as well as stride velocity variability . SCA gait parameters were characterized by a reduced stride length slower walking velocity and longer supporting phase . Additionally a smaller cerebellar volume correlated with an increased irregularity in gait . Gait characteristics exhibited considerable clinical relevance to hereditary SCA . We conclude that a combination of gait parameters ataxia scales and MRVD may represent more objective markers for clinical evaluations of SCA .

@highlight SCA gait is characterized by reduced stride length slower pace and longer supporting phase.
@highlight Gait characteristics showed good clinical relevance of hereditary SCA.
@highlight MRVD was significantly correlated with ICARS SARA score and stride speed variability.
