 Soil salinity is a major abiotic stressor and a serious threat to global food security . Biochemical compounds synthesised by plants ameliorate the effects of such stressors in characteristic ways . It is crucial to unravel the key components of the salt tolerance network to engineer salt tolerant genotypes of crops . For the elucidation of the metabolic contribution to salinity response in selected cultivars we used a gas chromatography mass spectrometry approach . The metabolic profiling of grains yielded sixty five metabolites . By comparing a salt sensitive cultivar of barley to a salt tolerant one we identified six and twenty significant metabolites in salt stressed seeds of Scope and GrangeR respectively . These included amino acids sugars sugar derivatives and organic acids . Whilst the concentrations of fructose reduced glycine glucitol and urea accumulated under salt stress in both varieties . Amino acids such as phenylalanine tryptophan and tyrosine sugar acids such as galactaric acid and glucuronic acid and several other key metabolites accumulated in GrangeR only . These metabolites are relevant to metabolic pathways of amino acid metabolism energy metabolism carbohydrate metabolism glycolysis gluconeogenesis pyruvate metabolism shikimate pathway TCA cycle inositol phosphate metabolism and galactose metabolism . Hence these compounds could be potentially used as biomarkers of abiotic stress responses and effects on grain quality and yield parameters . This work provides greater insights into functional metabolism in response to salinity stress and may help to dissect patterns associated with salt responses . Metabolites identified in this work could serve as accurate markers for salt tolerant crop selection in breeding programs .

@highlight A total of 62 metabolites belonging to various functional classes changed in two barley cultivars under salinity.
@highlight Metabolic profile of cv. Scope under salinity is considerably different to that of cv. Granger under salinity.
@highlight Amino acids sugars sugar alcohols sugar acids and other derivatives act as osmolytes under salinity.
@highlight Salinity significantly impacts amino acids metabolism sugar metabolism and TCA cycle.
@highlight Changes in metabolic processes and pathways enable the seeds to adapt with salinity stress.
