 Selenium is yet to be confirmed as essential for plants but it has proven to be an essential trace element for humans and other animals . However it is well documented that Se is a beneficial element for plants . Recent studies show that Se treatment at a low concentration exerts positive effects on plant growth development and yield . Thus Se may act as a vital element by altering several physiological and biochemical processes . Remarkably Se also acts as a plant antioxidant and pro oxidant and confers tolerance against different abiotic stresses including salinity drought extreme temperature and toxic metals metalloids stresses . Its protective mechanism involves the enhancement of photosynthetic pigment synthesis photosynthetic rate gas exchange accumulation of osmoprotectants and secondary metabolites . Another important role of Se is the enhancement of the antioxidant defense system which reduces reactive oxygen species accumulation and thus oxidative stress . Moreover Se also induces and modulates stress responsive proteins genes . Notably an excessive Se concentration in growing media shows phytotoxicity associated with the overproduction of ROS as pro oxidative Se activity inhibition of the biosynthesis of photosynthetic pigments and suppression of growth developmental and physiological processes . On the other hand as a phytofortifier Se may improve the nutritional quality of food crops and fodder . Moreover plants can play important roles in overwhelming the Se deficiency and toxicity in various areas of the world thus a comprehensive mechanism of Se metabolism is crucial for effective Se biofortification . Therefore this review focuses on the recent advancement in the beneficial and harmful physiological role of Se in plants under abiotic stresses .

@highlight Se has both positive and negate impact on plants life.
@highlight At higher dose Se exerts many negative consequence and both growth and physiology are affected.
@highlight At lower concentration Se ac as stimulants and promote plant growth and physiology and increase yield.
@highlight Se confers abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
@highlight Se shows its role as antioxidant and protects plants from oxidative damages.
@highlight Selenium biofortification can enhance crop quality.
