 Light adaptability is a major driver of succession and evolution in natural forest plant communities . However the relationship between plants and light is contradictory light provides energy for plant growth but excessive light negatively affects plant growth . To reveal the pattern of plant adaptation to diurnal variation in light photoprotection strategies were analyzed in young and mature leaves of six dominant species at two successional stages . Mature leaves of both mid and late successional dominant species exhibited a higher net photosynthetic rate than young leaves . In particular the mature leaves of the mid successional tree species had higher high light tolerance because of a higher Pn water use efficiency and electron transfer rate . In contrast the mature leaves of the late successional tree species had a higher restoration ability after high light stress because of higher thermal energy dissipation and faster stomatal regulation . Young leaves of both the mid and late successional dominant species exhibited a higher photoprotection capability than mature leaves . The young leaves of the mid successional tree species had higher high light tolerance because of their highest WUE and anthocyanin chlorophyll and higher flavonoid chlorophyll total phenolics chlorophyll and total antioxidant capacity chlorophyll ratios . The young leaves of the late successional tree species had a stronger restoration ability due to highest Flav Chl Phen Chl and TAC Chl ratios and a higher moisture content and non photochemical quenching coefficient . This study shows that in a high light environment when leaves are at the same developmental stage mid successional tree species better tolerate high light while late successional tree species have a greater restoration ability after high light stress .

@highlight Different photoprotection strategies for mid and late successional tree species.
@highlight Mid and late successional tree species response patterns to high light were different.
@highlight The mid successional tree species better tolerate high light.
@highlight Late successional tree species has greater restoration ability after high light stress.
