 Phenological modification is one of the most serious effects of global warming on ecosystems with clear seasonality such as alpine ecosystems in mid to high latitudes . Changes in flowering time and duration in plant communities are likely to influence plantpollinator interactions . However the effects of global warming on community scale phenology have scarcely been studied in alpine ecosystems . I analyzed the flowering records of fellfield and snowbed communities collected over a nine year period in the Taisetau Mountains of northern Japan . The flowering structure of alpine communities is composed of a flowering sequence of early blooming fellfield species late blooming fellfield species and snowbed species . Flowering initiation in FE showed small interannual variation while peak flowering time was accelerated according to warmer temperature . Both the initiation and peak flowering time of FL depended on heat sum during early summer . The flowering period of fellfield communities was shortened under warmer conditions and 1C warming thought to shorten the major flowering period by 3.8 days . The flowering initiation of snowbed plants strongly depended on snowmelt time and the peak flowering time further advanced in warmer summers . However the major flowering period of snowbed communities was independent of snowmelt time and thermal conditions because many snowbed species shifted flowering onset days with little changes in flowering period . As a result the total flowering period of alpine plant communities was largely determined by snowmelt time independent of thermal conditions . It is predicted that a 10 day earlier snowmelt will shorten the total flowering season by 4.8 days and a 10 day later snowmelt will extend the total flowering season by 5.8 days . Therefore snowmelt regime is a major determinant factor of the flowering structure of alpine ecosystems . Clarification of snowmelt dynamics is crucial to predict the global warming impacts on the phenology of alpine ecosystems .

@highlight Phenological events of alpine plants are strongly determined by snowmelt time and thermal conditions.
@highlight Flowering time of fellfield plants are regulated by heat sum while that of snowbed plants are determined by snowmelt time.
@highlight Total flowering period of alpine plant communities is shortened by earlier snowmelt.
@highlight Phenological survey by citizen volunteers highly contributes to the assessment of global change impacts on alpine ecosystem.
