 The quality of Kinnow fruit was assessed in different ecological zones by selecting three main districts Sargodha Toba Tek Singh and Vehari all of them have varying environmental conditions . Abiotic and biotic stress on fruit quality was assessed . More growing degree days photothermal index photo and helio thermal units were computed in Vehari while hydrothermal units and energy use efficiency were recorded in higher values at TTS . Fruit diameter was measured from April to December and recorded with increased width in TTS and Vehari during May and June . In May more fruit drop was noted in TTS and Vehari compared to Sargodha due to heat stress . Pests such as citrus thrips mites and fruit fly infected fruits were recorded in higher percentage at Vehari and TTS while citrus red scale infestation was seen more in Sargodha . In Sargodha a higher incidence of citrus scab and melanose was noted on Kinnow fruits while more stem end rot infected fruits were recorded at TTS and Vehari . In abiotic stress more wind scares were noted at Sargodha followed by TTS whereas stem injury and styler end deformity were found to be non significant . Fruit physical parameters such as width fresh weight and peel thickness were noted more in TTS and Vehari while more surface smoothness and firmness were observed in Sargodha . Biochemical properties such as pH total soluble solids titratable acidity sugars ascorbic acid total dissolved salts and electrical conductivity showed higher levels in Sargodha than TTS and Vehari . More antioxidant and total anthocyanins were found in Sargodha while higher levels of total phenolic contents were estimated at TTS and total flavonoids in Vehari . Kinnow fruit of Sargodha received more sensory scores in organoleptic evaluation . Higher percentage of A grade fruits was harvested from Sargodha and B grade fruits from TTS and Vehari . More numbers of fruits and weight were obtained from TTS followed by Sargodha . Extreme events such as heat stress and smog were seen more in Vehari and TTS and subsequently their fruit quality was found to be inferior .

@highlight Increasing level of biotic and abiotic stress was assessed on Kinnow fruit quality features in different ecological zones.
@highlight Comparatively biotic and abiotic stress extent was increased in warm regions under changing climate scenario.
@highlight Inferior Kinnow mandarin fruit quality with more production of lower grades fruit were recorded at warm regions.
@highlight Better quality with higher level of polyphenols and antioxidant activity were recorded at relatively moderate conditions.
@highlight Fruit quality parameters were influenced by fluctuating agrometeorological indices in climate change scenario.
