 Plants in natural environments have to cope with fluctuations in light conditions on different timescales ranging from seconds to days . Toward this plants employ both adaptive and protective mechanisms . Here we studied the response of low light grown tomato plants to short term high light exposure followed by a recovery period using large scale proteomic profiling photosynthetic and biochemical measurements . We found that following a 6 h HL treatment plants exhibited photosystem II photoinhibition a tendency toward a reduced electron transport and induction of non photochemical quenching . The proteomic data showed that key enzymes of the Mg branch of the tetrapyrrole pathway leading to chlorophyll biosynthesis were significantly down regulated by HL . Nonetheless no changes in chlorophyll content or in the levels of most photosynthetic proteins including all identified photosystem and light harvesting antenna proteins were detected . Notably we observed that following a recovery period plants were characterized by higher electron transport and an increased NPQ capacity indicative of an acclimation that resulted in better photosynthetic performance . Our proteomic analysis also revealed prominent up regulation of several enzymes of the flavonoid pathway as well as of enzymatic components of other plant antioxidant systems . In accord with these we found significant increases in the content of flavonoids and ascorbate and in the activity of ascorbate peroxidase following the HL and recovery . Together the results highlight the key alterations involved in photo protection and detoxification of reactive oxygen species which take part in the short term response to HL .

@highlight Short term high light exposure results in photoinhibition reduced electron transport and induction of NPQ.
@highlight Plants recovered from high light exhibit improved photosynthetic performance.
@highlight The levels of enzymes of the tetrapyrrole pathway Mg branch are mostly reduced.
@highlight Enzymatic components of antioxidant and redox related systems are up regulated.
