 While several studies have explored geographic relationships within the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program results have been mixed . Findings have revealed an imbalanced SNAP participation rate among eligible populations in both suburban and rural areas . Studies on SNAP accessibility have often focused on store locations but few have examined issues of traveling to SNAP offices . In this study we focused on SNAP office accessibility and its association with rurality . Using Google Map API we calculated road travel time and distance to the most conveniently located SNAP office for each block group in the conterminous United States . We investigated the degree to which the SNAP office accessibility is linked to rurality participant demographics socioeconomic characteristics and the program s overall participation rate . Results showed that at the block group level the SNAP eligible average driving time to the most convenient SNAP office is 15.28min while the SNAP eligible average distance is 8.57 miles . More than 75 of the SNAP income eligible population lives within a 20 min drive to a SNAP office and 91.8 lives within 30min . Every ten percentage points of increase in rurality decreases SNAP office accessibility by one additional minute of car travel time . We designed a Rurality Travel Clock visualization tool to provide a graphic description of the urban rural setting and SNAP office accessibility . Other observations include a noticeable cross relationship between population concentration and SNAP office accessibility . The findings help us to understand the dynamic relationships between SNAP participation rate and SNAP accessibility factors including eligibility employment status population and rurality at the county and state levels .

@highlight The average travel to a SNAP office is 15.28min or 8.57 miles block group .
@highlight 75 of the SNAP eligible population is within a 20 min drive to a SNAP office.
@highlight 10 percentage points of rurality increase reduce SNAP accessibility by 1min.
@highlight The Rurality Travel Clock RTC can visualize SNAP office accessibility by rurality.
@highlight SNAP office accessibility is positively associated with SNAP participation.
