 This article interrogates the spatial economic and cultural underpinnings of traditional retailscapes in sub Saharan Africa to understand how they intersect with contemporary urban planning policies . It does so by deploying a multi step investigation of the issues from four perspectives transportation corridors spheres of influence centrality and observed spatial patterns each leading us to connections between retail spaces and planning of African cities . Our analyses of 22 traditional satellite markets in Kumasi are distilled into four key findings . First these markets emerge along and at the intersection of intra and inter urban road networks as a means of granting local access to indigenous goods and services . Second the spatial distribution and spheres of influence of the markets partly support Christaller s hypothesis regarding the willingness of people to travel far distances to access higher order goods and services . The hypothesis fails however to recognize that some traditional markets can still have high spheres of influence without providing higher order goods and services because they constitute vital nodes in the rural urban food networks . Third we find a spatial clustering of these markets suggesting agglomerative tendencies among the markets . Finally we argue that the observed spatio social patterns of Kumasi s retailscape only make sense if they are situated within the city s modernist urban planning imaginaries . Specifically the city s retailscape embodies ongoing placemaking strategies which involve the expropriation of urban spaces from traders to modernize the cityscape .

@highlight Traditional satellite markets emerge along and at the intersection of intra and inter urban road networks.
@highlight Sphere of influence analysis of the markets partly supports Christallers range hypothesis.
@highlight There are agglomerative tendencies among these traditional satellite markets.
@highlight Retailscape analysis reveals moments of dispossessions and accumulation in African cities.
@highlight Resilient retailscapes requires confronting the ongoing neoliberal placemaking and modernist planning imaginaries.
