 Urban inequality and demography are inextricably linked . Inequality measures capture differences in access outcomes and characteristics for urban populations and changes to these metrics are the result of underlying demographic change which is in itself an unequal process . In this paper we address the demographic transformation occurring across US metropolitan areas in recent years and evaluate the extent to which population changea key index of economic opportunity and well beinghas been underpinned by the foreign born . In particular our interest lies with shrinking and at risk of shrinking metropolitan and micropolitan areas and the degree to which immigrants have impacted population change . We decompose foreign born population contributions by place of origin linking origin and destination geographies and also focus more specifically on the connections between city suburb growth patterns and the role of the foreign born by place of birth . We find evidence that urban population loss is accompanied by increases in the foreign born resulting in substantial transformation of the population composition of both central cities and outlying suburban areas . Furthermore we find that a number of areas avoided population loss during our study period solely through net increases in the foreign born . Our findings are important from an urban inequality standpoint suggesting an important role for the foreign born in mediating inter city inequality but also highlighting the need for strong policy responses that focus on the long term integration and provision of services for these groups in order to mitigate the potential for increased inequality within and across these areas .

@highlight Foreign born contribution to US population growth applies also to shrinking areas and is often a factor preventing or mediating the extent of loss.
@highlight Urban population loss doesn t mean that places are simply the same but smaller depopulation is accompanied by demographic transformation.
@highlight The positive effects of immigration generally ascribed to growing metro areas may also hold for shrinking areas. This merits further study.
@highlight The central role of the foreign born in shrinking areas indicates their importance for these areas in coming years.
