 River damming for electric power production generally triggers a set of anthropic activities that strongly impact on aquatic ecosystem especially in small reservoirs located in urbanized and industrialized areas . Among the possible adverse effects is the over abundance of aquatic macrophytes resulting from the input of high concentration of nutrients in the ecosystem that can affect the health of the ecosystem . In these situations macrophytes are treated as weeds that need to be continuously monitored and analysed over time . Historically remote sensing has played a prominent role in change detection studies and nowadays considering the open data sources of multi temporal images and the high computational performance that allows for larger volumes of historical images to be mined water monitoring is a recurrent object of analysis . The Salto Grande reservoir is a small water body located in the metropolitan region of Campinas So Paulo Brazil characterized by high rates of urbanization and industrialization . The intense anthropic occupation around the reservoir triggered the degradation of the landscape and the decrease of water quality . This study explored the potential of image attributes time series to monitor the spatio temporal behavior of aquatic macrophytes in the Salto Grande Reservoir . Our assumption was that the combination of techniques for analyzing large multi temporal datasets enables us to understand the trends and changes in the macrophytes occurrence in this small reservoir . To achieve this quarterly Normalized Difference Vegetation Index time series based on Landsat data imagery from 1984 to 2017 were built to analyze the occurrence and persistence of these aquatic plants in the reservoir . A principal component analysis was applied to the NDVI time series which allowed us to identify typical years in the abundance of macrophytes and twelve regions of greater and lesser temporal variability in its abundance by a

@highlight PCA and K means grouped spatiotemporal similar areas in an NDVI Landsat time series.
@highlight BFAST detected abrupt changes in macrophytes growth trend in areas near the river.
@highlight Macrophyte s abundance and persistence occurred in areas near the dam and the river.
