 By introducing an improved potential model and using the Internet map navigation service and GIS spatial analysis technology platform this paper studies the spatial accessibility and equity of the medical treatment of residential buildings in the main urban area of Zhengzhou . The findings show that overall the spatial accessibility of medical treatment in the study area extends in the northeast and southwest directions and presents a zonal spreading trend . There exist certain differences and imbalances in the medical facilities and services in each ring reflect in a gradual deterioration from the first ring to the third ring . According to residents demand for medical treatment and the distribution of medical resources the medical spaces themselves can be roughly divided into three regions high enjoyment type general type and lagging type . With regard to equity and based on the Gini coefficient and Lorenz curve the number of beds in medical facilities was found to be positively correlated with the population and the total supply of resources to be balanced with population demand whereas medical resources were seen to be scarce in the outskirts of Zhengzhou and far from the central area . The location entropy index suggests that accessibility to medical facilities in most residential areas is below the average level . While the total amount of hospital resources across the population was found to be relatively equitable much room for improvement can be said to remain in terms of residents accessibility when they arrive at hospitals for medical treatment . These research results provide new insights into equity evaluations of urban resource accessibility as well as a scientific basis for the Chinese government to plan the distribution of medical resources .

@highlight Real time travel big data drawn from an Internet map application were used to calculate travel and transportation costs.
@highlight Spatial pattern of residential population at the residential building level was estimated in order to reflect actual demand.
@highlight Equity in the access of the residential areas in the study area to medical facilities is evaluated from the perspective of different spatial scales middle level and micro level .
@highlight Zhengzhou could roughly be divided into three regions high enjoyment type general type and lagging type.
@highlight The lag of public service facilities in the process of urban expansion needs to be taken seriously by the government.
