 The causes and consequences of severe fires must be understood to strategically manage forest resources including timber and fuelwood . Floods and resulting infrastructure damages are intensified due to soil erosion and debris exhumed by recently burned catchments . A mixed Ponderosa and Pion Juniper forest managed by a rural New Mexico community burned in 2016 destroying harvestable fuelwood and damaging access roads . The objectives of this study were to estimate lost fuelwood value identify burned catchments that contributed to road damages develop criteria to prioritize a restoration area and 4 recommend possible forest management actions based on assessment of fire regime natural resource usage ecological dynamics and feasibility . Field reconnaissance facilitated image based mapping of forest structure burn severity and early successional recovery by 2018 . High spatial resolution aerial images collected before fire were used to map tree density as well as height based on shadow lengths and sun angle and to infer stem volumes from empirical diameter height relationships . Results suggest that 1.52.5 million USD of fuelwood was lost from a 1053 ha area . A remediation priority area was identified within a severely burned erosive catchment with limited successional plant cover . Econometrics and landscape scale optimizations for restoration are proposed . Potential fire management strategies are outlined in order to maximize ecosystem products and services while enhancing safety . Techniques developed in this study involving open source data and minimal field work may be useful to conifer forest managers with limited scientific funding .

@highlight This study evaluates economic wood loss road damage and restoration priority for a semi arid mixed conifer forest.
@highlight Aerial imagery and field allometric data led to an estimate of 1.52.5 million USD of fuelwood lost from a 1053 ha area.
@highlight Restoration priority was assigned to severely burned erosive catchment with low vegetation recovery.
@highlight Fuels management is recommended in order to maximize ecosystem products and services while enhancing safety.
