 The aim of the research was to identify functional changes of villages in peripheral area of Kodzko County in the Sudetes Mountains in southwestern Poland . The study area has for many decades been classified as a marginal and problem region mainly due to a substantial trend of long term depopulation . However in recent years the signs of economic revival have been observed . The study innovatively uses the functional typology of the smallest administrative units to recognize the character and spatial differentiation of functional transformations of these localities in the last 15 years following Polish accession to the European Union . The analyses were based on the data from the National Official Business Register . The results show an increase in the number of villages with dominant service functions especially in tourism and decrease in numbers of villages with the dominant agricultural sector . These changes can be interpreted as an illustration of evolutionary multifunctional rural development in marginal areas which also affects villages previously classified as declining . The findings allow for proposing a new category of a reviving village . Significant spatial differentiation of functional changes in the problem region suggests that local conditions exert a considerable influence on the course and scale of transformation in rural areas . Effectively problem area is a heterogeneous category . Therefore there is a vital need for in depth analyses including new typologies of the smallest administrative units to capture current processes in rural areas and to adapt strategies support and development policies to local assets and site specific needs .

@highlight Signs of economic revival in peripheral rural areas including depopulating villages.
@highlight A new category of a reviving village to describe processes in some marginal areas.
@highlight A functional typology of villages to capture current transformations in rural areas.
@highlight Increase in the number of villages with service functions decrease in agriculture.
@highlight Tourism potential is vital for the economic revival in the marginal region.
