 The main goal of this article is to propose a set of 20 indicators that represent barriers which prevent urban green space provision on three levels availability accessibility and attractiveness . These barriers include new investments such as residential areas and roads a lack of local zoning plans fences and entrance fees a lack of amenities facilities and entrances noise particulates . To test our set of indicators we investigated 115 parks and green squares in Lodz the third largest city in Poland . We focused on parks as key examples of UGS as they are the best explored and most recognizable spaces in most cities . We derived data for our analysis from thematic publicly available maps and databases and additional data were provided by managers of UGS . Moreover we present the procedure of data processing and creating indicators by using the QGIS 2.18 software . Our analysis shows that very small parks in the city center are mostly fenced lack park infrastructure leisure facilities and blue infrastructure and people are exposed to different nuisances . In turn parks with the lowest number of barriers are typically large and not in the city center . If compared with the spatial distribution of different groups of inhabitants and their socio economic status our results would show the actual availability accessibility and attractiveness . Our set of indicators is meant to facilitate further discussions with the different stakeholders planners in particular in order to remove barriers and increase the overall availability accessibility and attractiveness of UGS . Other indicators can be constructed for the needs of other cities but researchers should take into account data availability the local context institutional conditions and UGS specificities . Besides each case requires proper interpretation and individual consideration .

@highlight Every park has barriers limiting its availability accessibility and attractiveness.
@highlight Very small parks are characterized by higher intensity of barriers than big parks.
@highlight The highest intensity of barriers was noted in the center and on the outskirts of the city.
@highlight Comparing our results with the spatial distribution of city residents we will reveal a full view of UGS provision.
@highlight The utility of the proposed system of indicators depends on the availability of the underlying data.
