 Vehicle emissions are major sources of air pollution linked to negative health outcomes in children . Consequently California State Bill 352 stipulates that new schools may not be sited within 500ft of major roadways . However the exposure of existing schools to roadway emissions and the uneven distribution of the burden of air pollution have not been systematically explored for most cities . IN response the objectives of our study were twofold We used spatial analysis and an evaluation of traffic count data to develop a proximity based approach to assessing school exposure to roadway air pollution emissions . Second we applied our method to ask whether the risk of exposure to high concentrations of roadway emissions is equally distributed for schools in Santa Clara County and which demographic or spatial patterns emerge . In the process our proximity based approach estimated total annual traffic counts throughout SCC identified major roadways and assessed cumulative emission burdens and socio economic indicators for each school in the study area . Results were compared to output from a physically based model and to county asthma data . Our results suggest that 14 of schools in SCC are potentially exposed to high levels of air pollution from roadways a rate that is higher than the national average and students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds and receiving aid are more likely to be educated in schools with higher risk of exposure to elevated levels of roadway vehicle emissions . Asthma hospitalization rates are highest in socio economically disadvantaged areas with a higher density of major roadways . Areas of higher vehicle emissions determined by the physically based model are in general agreement with those of the distance based approach . We propose a combination of short and long term mitigation strategies to reduce the risk of exposure to vehicle emissions for school children .

@highlight Developed protocol to identify major roadways from traffic counts.
@highlight GIS based proximity analysis identified schools exposed to elevated vehicle emissions.
@highlight Higher percentage of schools in study area are within close proximity to major roads than national area.
@highlight Economically disadvantaged students more likely to learn in schools with higher risk of exposure.
