 Access to a variety of affordable and healthy food has been a critical component in sustainable food system planning . Research on food accessibility and food deserts can have important policy implications for alleviating health disparities . In the existing food access literature supermarkets or large chain grocery stores have typically been used as the basis for measuring food access . Independent non chain grocers are often left out . We propose a multidimensional accessibility based assessment method to examine whether and how independent grocers help shape the food landscape and their locational strategy . A food desert elimination optimization model is formulated to evaluate the effectiveness of relying on small full service grocers for servicing food desert neighborhoods . The empirical study conducted in Tucson Arizona indicates that while full service independent grocers fill some gaps left by chain markets such stores are more helpful for improving food access diversity this is reflected by the co locating patterns of chain and non chain stores . A few independent stores do however primarily serve food deserts in racially ethnically diverse neighborhoods where higher proportions of residents rely on public assistance program and have limited mobility . Our case study suggests that small independent grocers may have significant potential to aid in servicing areas with no or limited access to healthy food particularly if policy incentives are provided .

@highlight We examined the role of full service independent grocery stores in shaping urban foodscape.
@highlight A spatial optimization model was developed to maximally eliminate food deserts.
@highlight Independent grocers are found to fill in the gaps left behind by chain stores in some communities while in many more add to the diversity rather than proximity.
@highlight They tend to serve more racially ethnically diversified and dense neighborhoods.
@highlight Promoting small independent grocers in un or underserved areas has great potential to improve regional food accessibility.
