 In the context of rapid urbanization changes in human demand and agricultural technology progress have deeply expanded the cultivated land attribute dimensions . Thus evaluating the regional cultivated land quality with different attributes and studying its spatial mechanism is of great theoretical and practical significance . Based on the analytical framework of resource asset capital attributes of cultivated land quality multi source data were used to evaluate the quality indexes of 5332 cultivated land plots with different attributes in Quzhou county . Then some spatial analysis models were applied to explore the spatial distribution features of these three quality attributes . The results showed that 1 in the analytical framework of resource asset capital attributes of regional cultivated land quality the resource quality meant the natural production capacity of cultivated land . However asset quality and capital quality indicate the ability of cultivated land to bring wealth rights and surplus profits to humans . 2 Considerable gaps existed in the evaluation results of different quality attributes in Quzhou . The proportions of good medium and lower quality cultivated land in the total cultivated land area of resource quality was 40.35 23.78 and 35.87 the proportions were 40.35 23.78 and 35.87 in the asset quality area and 30.87 28.48 and 40.65 in the capital quality area respectively . 3 The spatial patterns of the three quality attributes all showed obvious positive autocorrelation with numerical values of 0.705 3 0.846 4 and .

@highlight An analytical framework based on resource asset capital attributes for cultivated land quality evaluation is proposed.
@highlight Spatial mechanism was explored using spatial autocorrelation variation and hotspots analysis.
@highlight The evaluation results of different attributes in cultivated land quality vary over space.
@highlight The spatial pattern differences were significantly existed among resource asset and capital quality of cultivated land.
