 Increased visitor use and overuse are well documented in popular national parks in the Western United States . Previous research has documented how this high level of visitor use negatively impacts park resources and inhibits the provisioning of recreational ecosystem services to park visitors . This research informs the management of recreational ecosystem services in wildland protected areas by identifying important provisioning areas degraded provisioning areas and at risk provisioning areas through a participatory mapping exercise conducted with park managers and other key residential stakeholders in Grand Canyon National Park . Following a mixed methods design responses were analyzed via overlap hotspot and qualitative metadata analyses . Findings indicate that unique bundles of recreational ecosystem services are provisioned in specific areas across the study area . However many of these service provisioning areas were also found to be either degraded or at risk of degradation due to visitor use trends . Based on perceived service provisioning and degradation areas of concern for recreational ecosystem service management were subsequently classified . Finally sources and impacts of degradation for areas of concern were identified through a paired qualitative analysis of the spatial participatory mapping data . As a result this manuscript outlines a new method of prioritizing areas for recreational ecosystem service management through an areas of concern analysis that examines the overlap of service provisioning areas and ecological and experiential degradation .

@highlight As visitor use increases in U.S. national parks more rigorous monitoring is needed.
@highlight Recreational ecosystem services RES present a means of measuring impact.
@highlight This research presents a new method of spatially identifying RES areas of concern.
@highlight Areas of concern both provision RES and are degraded from visitor use impacts.
@highlight This measure can be used to prioritize monitoring and management of visitor use.
