 Long term community resilience which privileges a long view look at chronic slow moving issues affecting communities has begun to draw more attention from researchers and policymakers . In the Valley of the Sun resilience to heat is both a necessity and a way of life . Solutions are ubiquitous but nevertheless still in demand over the long hot summers in the Phoenix Arizona metropolitan area . Residents heavily rely on air conditioning for relief from heat stress illness and to prevent indoor heat related deaths . However paying for the electricity to keep homes cool can be expensive and the electric bills can be cost prohibitive for many low income individuals and families . Local government agencies non governmental organizations and charitable organizations have programs that provide financial assistance for qualified applicants offering limited relief from electricity costs . To better understand the utility assistance landscape in the Phoenix metropolitan area as a contributor to heat resilience among vulnerable communities we created a collaborative team of individuals from the university and the Salvation Army one of the more than 80 organizations that provides emergency economic aid for low income families to pay high cost electricity bills to articulate insights about systemic efficiencies and efficacies from a data informed perspective . We utilized exploratory data analysis and advanced spatial analytical methods with the Salvation Army to build a shared understanding of knowledge gaps and verified hunches . Our collaborative research confirms that minority groups disproportionately require assistance . Meanwhile 30 of the travel time and distance to intake interviews could be saved by switching from zip code based assignment systems to address based assignment systems . Budgeting across empirically identified temporal patterns of need could offer resilience benefits to the most vulnerable . As a result of this community research partnership data from the Salvation Army reveals the character and dimension of critical challenges within the utility assistance system as a whole informs both immediate solutions and builds a knowledge base for transforming future operations for the organization while it shapes broader conversations across the community of service providers about heat resilience in both spatial and temporal terms .

@highlight Long term heat stress represents one chronic issue for community resilience.
@highlight More than 30 of the clients travel cost can be saved by using address based system.
@highlight The spatio temporal imbalance of the utility assistance exists in the current system.
@highlight Results illustrate the value of knowledge exchange between academia and community.
