 Vegetation cover plays a key role in reducing wind erosion and improving air quality in different parts of the world . However little is known about the long term period seasonal changes in vegetation anomalies and their effects on wind erosion in Iran . Therefore in the current research the seasonal changes in vegetation cover and the level of wind erosion activity across the country from 2000 to 2018 have been identified in detail using the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index anomaly and the dust concentration anomaly respectively . Furthermore the nonparametric MannKendall test and Sen s slope estimator were used to evaluate the variable trend changes . The bivariate correlation analysis was performed to determine the relationship between NDVIA and DCA in the spring summer autumn winter and growing season . The agricultural drought was further monitored for the season when the strongest correlation between vegetation changes and the activity of wind erosion events was observed . The NDVIA and DCA maps were spatially analyzed to identify areas affected by drought and wind erosion respectively . Results indicated that across the whole country the NDVIA increased significantly in the autumn and growing season while the DCA had a significant decreasing trend in the spring and growing season . The results of correlation analysis indicated that NDVIA corresponded well with the DCA in the spring summer and growing season while no meaningful correlation was found between them in the winter and autumn . Agricultural drought monitoring using the growing season NDVIA showed that about 85 72 67 63 62 and 61 of Iran has experienced this phenomenon over the years 2008 2000 2018 2002 2006 and 2003 respectively . The DCA maps displayed more than 54 of the country has suffered from the intensification of the wind erosion over the years . Our findings also demonstrated that areas with NDVIA 0 have had a significant impact on dust produced by wind erosion in areas with DCA 0 . Spatially these areas were mainly observed in the eastern half of Iran areas that were most affected by the drought over the monitoring years . This work encourages us to use the NDVIA and DCA to evaluate the linkage between seasonal vegetation variations and wind erosion activity in arid and semi arid regions . This study could also be useful for recognizing areas at risk of drought and wind erosion as well as for mitigating their adverse effects .

@highlight Seasonal variations of the NDVI anomaly and its association with the DC anomaly over Iran were investigated.
@highlight Agricultural drought and wind erosion were monitored for a long term period 20002018 .
@highlight The linkage between areas that have suffered from both droughts and soil erosion has been identified.
@highlight The significant linkages between NDVIA and DCA variations were observed in the warm seasons of the monitoring period.
@highlight Drought affected areas have played an important role in dust production especially in areas with positive DC anomaly.
