 Angola has been labelled a petro state since independence due to its oil wealth and the country s economic dependence on its revenues . Considering that oil availability and price could be a factor reducing deforestation and forest degradation through accelerating energy transition our objective was to study the energy consumption patterns and the role of woody biomass as a source of income of rural villagers and urban poor dwellers practicing agriculture living in one of the oil rich provinces . We used a people and pixels approach combining interviews with households heads with remote sensing analysis of land use cover change . Our findings revealed that while kerosene is the main energy source for cooking and lighting in the city in rural areas it is firewood and flashlights respectively and that the selling of firewood and or charcoal is practiced by few households . Contrary to what has been reported about other Angolan regions and African countries satellite imagery analysis showed that deforestation around Zaire province capital city and surrounding rural villages is comparatively small . Bearing in mind that the consumption of biomass for domestic household needs is reduced other drivers of deforestation forest degradation must be considered . Nonetheless the high domestic use of kerosene contributes to the exhaustion of its limited global supplies and to increasing greenhouse gas emissions disregarding the country s potential to produce renewable energy .

@highlight The energy consumption patterns and the role of woody biomass as a source of income of rural and urban poor households practicing agriculture is not a major cause of deforestation around the capital city of the oil rich Zaire province of Angola.
@highlight Kerosene is the most used source of energy for cooking and lighting in the city while in rural areas it is firewood and flashlights.
@highlight Data reveals the importance of consumer choice of their energy use patterns and multiple fuel mixes.
@highlight Selling of firewood and or charcoal is practiced by few households.
@highlight There is a need support the introduction of multi purpose trees to develop new technologies for house building and to introduce renewable energy sources.
