 Housing affordability is an issue of increasing importance and interest particularly in the United States . Much of this interest is due to skyrocketing rents in coastal cities with tight housing markets . Shrinking cities in contrast are often characterized as rich in low cost housing providing an affordable alternative to superstar cities . This paper compares income and rent dynamics in cities with growing versus shrinking populations . While costs may be lower in shrinking cities falling incomes have likely rendered housing unaffordable for many residents . We employ multiple lines of evidence to test for different dynamics between growing and shrinking cities . Matching is used to explore changes in income and rent between 1980 and 2017 in shrinking and the most similar non shrinking cities . After controlling for baseline conditions shrinking cities exhibit faster falling incomes and growing cities exhibit faster rising rents while rent burden increases at a very similar rate in both groups . We also use a fixed effects regression model to test for differences between growing and shrinking cities in sensitivity of rent burden to changes in income and rent . Rent burden has considerably increased across US cities since 1980 yet growing and shrinking cities exhibit clearly different pathways toward that end . Shrinking cities are more sensitive to identical changes in income and rent likely because a greater share of their residents live near the edge of affordability .

@highlight Housing affordability is a problem of global dimensions impacting cities throughout the developed world.
@highlight Rent burden has increased across U.S. cities since 1980 yet growing and shrinking cities exhibit different rent and income dynamics.
@highlight Shrinking cities exhibit faster falling incomes while growing cities exhibit faster rising rents.
@highlight Shrinking cities are also more sensitive to identical changes in income and rent as a greater share of residents likely live near the edge of affordability.
