 Forest covers 40 of the European Alpine region and contributes to the protection of human beings and infrastructures against natural hazards such as rockfalls . However despite the recognition of this ecosystem service most mountain territories do not have a map of protection forests . When a map exists it generally depends on data restricted to a limited extent which prevents any replication or comparison on other areas . The aim of this study is to develop a method using harmonized and open data to produce the first map of protection forests against rockfalls at the European Alpine region scale . Based on these data we first identified potential rockfall release areas and calibrated the model according to 2812 real rockfall events located around the Alps . Second 46.5 billion 3 D rockfall propagation simulations taking into account topography land use and human assets were computed on the entire area . Protection forest is defined as being located on at least one rockfall trajectory that had impacted human assets . Our results show that 14 of the forests have a potential protection function against rockfalls in the Alpine Space region . This proportion goes up to 21.5 if we consider only the core of the Alpine area . 80 of the protection forest area contributes to mitigate rockfall hazard on road network 55 on buildings and only 6 on railways . This work provides a robust objective and reproducible method for locating protection forests on a large geographical scale . Such a map may serve as a basis for national and European risk management policies .

@highlight We identified harmonized open data to model rockfall propagation over European Alps.
@highlight 46.5 billions rockfall trajectories were computed to identify protection forests.
@highlight 14 of protection forests in the Alpine region 21.5 in the core of the Alpine area .
@highlight 80 of protection forests area protect roads 55 buildings and 6 railways.
@highlight Reproducible method and result available for policy makers foresters and risk managers.
