 Small scale fisheries exhibit diverse territorial conflicts with other users and productive activities coexistent in fluvial environments which usually are difficult to handle by management agencies . The aim of this study is to identify and spatialize the conflicts which most affect small scale artisanal fisheries on the Middle and Lower Paran River as well as to expand the fishing territory concept for large rivers through the development of a participatory mapping process along with artisanal fishers . PM was performed in different fishing communities of the Middle and Lower Paran River . The information gathered was processed by the Quantum GIS software and local fishing maps were drawn up . Livestock represented the main conflictive factor in terms of limiting fishing activity . Shore use and occupancy were identified as one of the main sources of conflict for fishers due to the reduction of mooring and landing areas that have been lost or allocated for other purposes . The sustainable fishing territory was proposed as a new concept based on integration of the fishing territory idea and the areas of ecological value proposing such framework as an umbrella area for conservation purposes . Differences in attributes used for developing the fishing territories suggested that PM was effective in recognizing local characteristics on a small scale . Although PM remains still poorly explored for large floodplain rivers it provides an opportunity to understand the complexity of fishing territories within a context of fisheries management and territorial planning . In this context PM represents also an effective tool for dealing with conflicts between stakeholders who share the fluvial space through different productive and recreational activities .

@highlight Fishing territory concept in large floodplain rivers should include all spatial dimensions of fishing activity.
@highlight The sustainable fishing territory involve the fishing territory and areas of ecological value for fisheries.
@highlight Recognition of sustainable fishing territories become critical issues for territorial planning of the fluvial space.
@highlight Participatory mapping allows to recognize and geolocalize conflicts among all river stakeholders other than fishing.
@highlight Participatory mapping enhances the value of fisher s knowledge and reinforces their demands and needs on territory uses.
