 Human well being is often an overarching goal in environmental decision making yet assessments are often limited to economic health or ecological endpoints that are more tangible to measure . Composite indices provide a comprehensive approach to measuring well being in terms of multi dimensional components such as living standards health education safety and culture . For example the Human Well Being Index framework initially developed for the U.S. fifty states was recently applied to quantify human well being for Puerto Rico . However the paucity of data at spatial scales finer than state or county levels particularly for social metrics poses a major limitation to quantifying well being at neighborhood scales relevant to decision making . Here we demonstrate a spatial interpolation method to fill in missing fine scale data where coarser scale data is available . Downscaling from municipio to census tract revealed a greater range of variability in well being scores across Puerto Rico in particular a larger proportion of low well being scores . Furthermore while some components of wellbeing showed consistent improvement over time from 2000 to 2017 across Puerto Rico others were variable among census tracts increasing for some but declining for others . We use a case study in the San Juan Bay estuary watershed to illustrate how approaches to quantify baseline levels of well being can be used to explore potential impacts of management actions on communities including to identify environmental justice inequalities among neighborhoods . Spatial clustering analysis was used to identify statistically significant cold or hot spots in well being . This study demonstrates how indicators of well being coupled with interpolation methods to overcome limitations of data availability can help to monitor long term changes over time and to better communicate the potential value of ecosystem restoration or resource management .

@highlight Neighborhood scale human well being index was calculated for Puerto Rico.
@highlight Spatial interpolation was used to overcome limitations in data availability.
@highlight Health education social cohesion generally increased across Puerto Rico from 2000 to 2017.
@highlight Living standards connection to nature cultural fulfillment declined in many areas.
@highlight Neighborhoods in the San Juan Bay watershed were highly variable in well being.
