 Landscape is an area formed by human and nature interactions . These areas may have some differences . These differences are expressed by the character of the area . Landscape character can be defined as the presence diversity and arrangement of landscape features that give a certain identity to landscape and make it stand out from the surrounding landscapes . Recently Landscape Character Analysis studies have gained momentum in order to gather more information about the landscape and to make sustainable plans and fulfill the obligations arising from the European Landscape Agreement . In this study the Aras Basin located in the province of Erzurum in eastern Turkey are discussed using the LCA and optimum land use methodology . Natural and cultural data of the study area were digitized and analyzed with Geographic Information Systems . According to the analysis results 14 different landscape character areas and 384 landscape character types obtained in the Aras Basin . Also optimum land uses of the study area were determined and incompatibility was examined between these areas and landscape character types . Based on the results the study is considered to be a data source for future implementation management and development policies related to the basin .

@highlight Landscape character can be defined as the presence diversity and arrangement of landscape features that give a certain identity to landscape and make it stand out from the surrounding landscapes.
@highlight In this study the Aras Basin located in the province of Erzurum in eastern Turkey are discussed using the LCA and optimum land use methodology.
@highlight According to the analysis results 14 different landscape character areas and 384 landscape character types obtained in the Aras Basin.
@highlight Optimum land uses of the study area were determined and incompatibility was examined between these areas and landscape character types.
@highlight This study was considered to be a data source for future implementation management and development policies related to the basin.
