 Expansion of Antarctic vegetation in ice free areas underlines the need for effective remote sensing techniques to properly monitor the changes . Detection and mapping of vegetation remains limited in the Antarctic environment given the complexity of its surface coverage . Some cryptogamic species exhibit low reflectance in the near infrared region and are not easily detected by vegetation indices such as the normalized difference vegetation index . In addition spectral reflectance of Antarctic vegetation is highly variable according to seasonal conditions which may influence NDVI results . As ultra high resolution aerial imagery allows for a detailed analysis of vegetation and enables the validation of satellite imagery in this study we assess the ability of the NDVI from unmanned aerial vehicle Sentinel 2 and Landsat 8 to identify vegetated areas in the ice free environment of Hope Bay Antarctic Peninsula . NDVI classification with class ranges set by statistical parameters is performed . The results show that different sensors provide different NDVI values for the same vegetation class . NDVI classification enabled the identification of areas showing vegetation cover which are in accordance with the manually mapped areas in the UAV image . Correspondence in vegetation distribution and classes can be observed across all classifications demonstrating that aerial and satellite imagery may be used for Antarctic vegetation monitoring . A close association between NDVI classes and Antarctic vegetation type is identified where lichens are generally classified in lower probability classes and algae and moss in higher probability classes . This article shows the potential of NDVI applied to Antarctic vegetation and the significance of data statistical parameters in the selection of thresholds reducing the need for ground truth information in remote areas .

@highlight NDVI categorization is suitable for the classification of cryptogamic vegetation.
@highlight Statistical parameters may be used to define specific class ranges for each image.
@highlight Antarctic vegetation types are closely associated to NDVI values.
@highlight UAV is a resourceful validator of Antarctic vegetation in orbital images.
@highlight Sentinel 2 is a valuable source of orbital data for monitoring Antarctic vegetation.
