 Biogeographical studies are considered effective for investigations on macroecology and evolution as well as for delineating patterns of endemism and identifying the key drivers influencing the historical distribution of species . Clustering techniques based on environmental datasets and distribution of endemic species have been largely used in biogeography and for the definition of endemic rich regions where conservation actions should be implemented . Despite several earlier studies have dealt with the biogeographical territories in Egypt none of them have provided a replicable method to support such regionalisation . We proposed a two step procedure for the biogeographical regionalisation of Egypt consisting in the definition of environmental clusters by using the k nearest neighbours algorithm and the spatial clustering of such clusters according to the distribution of 140 endemic vascular plants . The hierarchical clustering and indicator values analyses based on the presence absence matrix of endemic taxa in each cluster were performed to define two cut off levels of biogeographical sectors and subsectors . A total of six sectors and nine subsectors were identified . Climatic related variables elevation and soil organic carbon were the most important determinants for environmental clustering of Egypt . The highest endemic richness was recorded in the Marioutico Arishian Sinaico Arabian and Nilotic sectors and in Sinaic Arishian and Marioutic subsectors . Nonetheless the most protected sectors were Elbanian and Suezian while the lowest sectors were Nilotic and Marioutico Arishian . The already established protected areas in Egypt are not sufficient for conserving the representation of the identified endemic rich plant sectors . This two step procedure confirms the usefulness of environmental attributes together with the spatial distribution of endemic vascular plants to define the biogeographical units in Egypt . Our regionalisation method could be replicated for other species groups with the ultimate goal of integration all species of interest in a single biogeographical system . Furthermore the presented regionalisation will help to identify weaknesses in current protection actions and to understand biogeographical processes .

@highlight The biogeography of Egypt according to endemic vascular plants is proposed.
@highlight Climate elevation and soil organic carbon are important for clustering of Egypt.
@highlight The biogeographical scheme includes six sectors and nine subsectors.
@highlight The protected areas in Egypt are not sufficient for conserving endemic plants.
@highlight Our study provides a simple and replicable method to cluster biogeographic areas.
