 This paper investigates regional inequality spatial polarization and places mobility in provincial China through a case study of Jiangsu province from a multi scale and multi dimensional framework . Based on policy changes and inequality indices we divide the development trajectory of Jiangsu since the reform into three sub periods 19781993 19942004 and 20042014 . The analysis reveals that regional inequality and polarization have a similar pattern fast growth during 19781993 fluctuating during 19942004 and stable decline after 2004 . Place mobility stays low after 1994 mainly because of the growing accumulation of the developed area . After 2004 we can observe higher mobility which however is not strong enough to change the core periphery structure . The spatial measurements reflect the spatial agglomeration process and the core periphery structure has become clear and stable since 1994 . Such findings are also confirmed by the clustering of self organizing maps which reveals local development trajectories in Jiangsu . This paper shows that a strong core periphery structure increases spatial polarization and reduces place mobility even though regional inequality does not intensify . More policies are needed to address the serious problems of spatial exclusion the tremendous core periphery gap the persistent polarization among geographical regions and populations and the decreasing place mobility . Our study calls for a more in depth investigation of the multi scale and multi dimensional nature of spatial inequality and further analysis of the complexity of spatial inequality and the development of poorer regions .

@highlight The linkages among regional inequality polarization and place mobility are less studied.
@highlight Regional inequality and polarization have a similar pattern growth fluctuation and decline.
@highlight The spatial agglomeration process leads to a strong core periphery structure.
@highlight The core periphery structure increases spatial polarization and reduces place mobility.
@highlight The recent convergence trend cannot reduce the core periphery gap.
