 The Heihe River Basin with unique landscapes and coexisting cold and arid regions is the second largest endorheic basin in northwestern China . The Heihe integrated observatory network was established in 2007 which included multi element multiscale distributed and incorporating satellite airborne ground based observations via Internet of Things technology these observations span the main land cover of the basin . This observatory provides a great opportunity to analyze the spatiotemporal variation in evapotranspiration in the HRB and ET characteristics were investigated on three scales taking the HRB as a research object . The average annual ET in typical ecosystems is approximately 380530mm upstream 6401000mm midstream 610680mm downstream and 190mm and 50mm in midstream and downstream desert surfaces respectively . The ET from plant surfaces is strongly controlled by available energy in upstream and midstream regions while it is controlled by vapor pressure deficit and surface conductance downstream . The ET in oasis and desert systems is characterized by three gradients plant residential area barren land and desert with a maximum difference of annual ET more than 500mm . This difference is primarily caused by variations of soil moisture among different underlying surfaces . For watershed ET higher ET was observed upstream and it decreased from midstream to downstream with the highest values in the oasis . The annual ET in the main plant surfaces was approximately 500700mm 600800mm and 600700mm in the up mid and downstream regions respectively while the ET was approximately 100250mm and 50200mm in desert and barren or sparsely vegetation surfaces in the mid and downstream regions respectively . The spatiotemporal variations of ET were primarily influenced by land cover soil moisture vegetation condition and available energy . The results improve our understanding of the spatiotemporal variations in ET in the HRB and apply to comparable endorheic basins with similar climatic and landscape conditions .

@highlight ET characteristics were investigated taking the watershed as an integral research object.
@highlight Quantitative variation of ET was given at typical ecosystems oasis desert system and watershed scales.
@highlight The results can be applied to similar climatic and landscape endorheic basins.
