 Intensively managed grasslands typically containing a few high yielding species play a key role in providing biomass feedstock for animal feed and bioenergy production . However these grasslands often contain few resources for flower visiting insects which provide pollination services for crops . In this study we investigate if both high yield and floral resources for pollinators can be achieved in intensively managed grasslands by varying species diversity and composition and cutting frequency . Four perennial grassland mixtures containing 3 5 11 and 13 species of grasses and or forbs were established at three sites varying in surrounding landscape and plots were managed with three cutting strategies . Biomass production was measured as annual herbage yield . Every 24 weeks throughout the flowering season flower abundance richness temporal stability and flower visiting insects were monitored . The 11 and 13 species mixtures designed to enhance pollinators produced similar or higher herbage yield than the 3 species mixture under a two cut strategy or the 5 species mixture under a four cut strategy . The 3 and 5 species mixtures had a high accumulated flower abundance due to excessive flowering of lucerne under the two cut strategy and white clover under the four cut strategy . Interestingly flower abundance was not significantly reduced under the two cut strategy compared to no cut . As expected the 11 and 13 species mixtures presented a higher diversity of flowers during the flowering season . Flower temporal stability was generally higher in 11 and 13 species mixtures under the two cut strategy while it was highest in the 5 species mixture under the four cut strategy . Pollinator profiles were plant species specific and varied very little among sites . Legume species mainly attracted large bees while the most abundant forbs attracted other insect groups in particular syrphids and other flies . Our results suggest that multi species grasslands can be designed to support a high diversity of pollinators without compromising herbage yield . In particular adding forbs to the grass legume seed mixtures and managing grasslands with a two cut strategy may increase flower resources available for a larger range of wild pollinators .

@highlight Intensively managed grasslands may be designed for multi functional purposes.
@highlight We tested different combinations of multi species mixtures and cutting regimes.
@highlight Herbage yield and floral resource availability were assessed.
@highlight Functional composition of pollinators was plant species specific.
@highlight High yielding multi species grasslands can simultaneously support pollinators.
