 Drought is a devastating natural hazard posing great threats to agriculture . Identifying the spatial pattern of agricultural sensitivity to drought can provide scientific information for decision makers to prepare droughts allocate resources and mitigate impacts . Here we use long term state and county level crop data for the 10 major crops corn grain soybeans hay spring wheat winter wheat cotton corn silage sorghum barley and rice in the United States from 1950 to 2016 . First we perform a correlation analysis between crop yield anomalies and two drought indices and Standardized Precipitation Index to identify the sub seasonal pattern of agricultural sensitivity to drought stress . SPEI performs better than SPI . For most crops the sensitivity to drought increases in the early period peaks at the critical months and then declines . July is the most critical month for crop growth for most crops . Among all crops soybean and corn grain are most sensitive to drought . Second we develop an Agriculture Drought Sensitivity Index to quantitatively measure the sensitivity of agriculture to drought stress based on the statistical relationship between the ten major crops and SPEI . We demonstrate that there exists a very strong spatial correspondence between higher sensitivity to drought and the lower percentage of acres irrigated and vice versa . Also for those regions with limited irrigation the sensitivity is higher in arid semi arid regions and lower in humid regions in summer . Third given the importance of irrigation an analysis of covariance shows that the irrigated crop yields have much higher long run mean yields than non irrigated crop yields . Fourth to investigate how irrigation affects drought sensitivity a panel data regression model shows that the responses of crop growth to drought are non linear for all crops . Non irrigated crops are more sensitive to droughts than the irrigated crops particularly in severe drought conditions . This provides quantitative incentive to use irrigation as an important adaptation and coping strategy to mitigate the drought impacts on agriculture in the US .

@highlight We quantitatively map the sensitivity of agriculture to drought stress.
@highlight A strong spatial correspondence between drought sensitivity and irrigation exists.
@highlight The sensitivity is higher in arid semi arid regions and lower in humid regions.
@highlight We identify the sub seasonal pattern of agricultural sensitivity to drought stress.
@highlight The non irrigated crops are more sensitive to drought than the irrigated crops.
