 SoilWaterAtmospherePlant model fails to consider the impacts of plastic film mulching on soil moisture and heat regimes and crop growth and yield . In this study SWAP model was modified in the modules of precipitation interception soil evaporation soil temperature and crop growth to accommodate the changes of soil moisture and soil temperature caused by film mulching and the consequent variation of crop growth . The modified SWAP model was compared with original SWAP model . Here the original model showed the case where there was no film mulching effect under the same input conditions as the modified model . The models were calibrated and validated by a field experiment of seedmaize conducted in the Shiyang River Basin of Northwest China in 2017 2018 and 2019 . The experiment included three drip irrigation treatments under film mulching conditions i.e . WF WM WL . Results showed the normalized root mean square errors for soil water storage soil temperature at 0 5 10 20cm soil depths leaf area index aboveground dry biomass and yield under different irrigation treatments for the three seasons by the modified model were 14.8 43.5 70.5 56.4 and 82.1 lower than those of the original model respectively which demonstrated higher simulation accuracy of the modified model for mulched field . The modified model could more accurately depict the changes of the SWS and LAI caused by the film mulching at various growth stages . It could also reveal the enhanced soil temperature by film mulching especially at the early stage . We analyzed the film mulching effects by comparing the simulation results of the modified model and the original model which could represent the difference between film mulching and no mulching . Results showed that soil evaporation and evapotranspiration under film mulching conditions were 60.7 and 10.1 lower while crop transpiration was 20.2 higher compared with no mulching . The yield and water use efficiency under film mulching conditions improved by 38.9 and 54.3 compared with no mulching . Film mulching had more significant influence on the SWS LAI ADB yield crop transpiration and WUE under WL treatment than under WF and WM treatments .

@highlight SWAP model was modified by considering the impact of film mulching on maize field.
@highlight Modified SWAP reflected film mulching effect showing better fit with observation.
@highlight Film mulching reduced soil evaporation and might increase transpiration.
@highlight The simulation accuracy of maize yield improved by 82.1 in the modified SWAP.
@highlight Film mulching impact was more prominent under deficit irrigation.
