 One of the key strategies to alleviate negative impacts of climate change on crop production is the development of new cultivars better adapted to the conditions expected in the future . Despite the role of legumes as protein sources medium and long term strategies currently debated mainly focus on agricultural policies and on improved management practices whereas ideotyping studies using climate projections are scarcely reported . The objective of this study was to define pea ideotypes improved for yield and irrigation water productivity targeting current climate and four future projections centred on 2040 resulting from the combination of two General Circulation Models and two Representative Concentration Pathways . The STICS model was used with the default pea parameterization refined using data from two years of dedicated field experiments . Ideotypes were defined by combining STICS and the E FAST sensitivity analysis method focusing on model parameters representing traits on which breeding programs are ongoing . Results showed that climate change is expected to decrease the productivity of current pea cultivars and that increasing irrigation would not avoid yield losses . The proposed ideotypes characterized by a shorter vegetative phase and by increased tolerance to high temperature performed better than current varieties providing higher yields and reduced water consumption . For the first time we demonstrated the suitability of STICS for ideotyping purposes and used a simulation model to define pea breeding strategies targeting future climate conditions .

@highlight The crop model STICS was parametrized and evaluated to define field pea ideotypes.
@highlight The impacts of climate change on current field pea cultivars was assessed.
@highlight A composite ideotyping index targeting yield and water productivity were developed.
@highlight District specific ideotypes were defined for current climate and future projections.
@highlight The introduction of ideotypes will improve crop productivity in all GEM scenarios.
