 The abundance of scientific papers dealing with olive reproductive phenology contrasts with the scarce information available in relation to the winter dormant state of olive vegetative structures . In this study three experiments with young olive trees were performed in Southern Spain aiming to provide insight into some features of the winter rest period in this evergreen species . Experiment 1 evaluated the environmental cues triggering dormancy induction by measuring leaf appearance rates in trees subjected to different conditions of temperature and daylength over the course of the 2012 autumn . In Experiment 2 several sets of plants were placed into a greenhouse at different dates along the 2013 2014 winter testing the ability of dormant plants to resume growth upon the return of favourable temperatures . Finally Experiment 3 was carried out during the autumns of 2016 and 2017 in two locations and was devoted to assess differences between five cultivars in the onset of dormancy under natural conditions . Our findings revealed that dormancy induction is not controlled by photoperiod but by low temperatures . The subsequent winter rest state seems to be easily reversed after 12 weeks of exposure to warm conditions irrespective of the initial date of exposure . With regard to cultivar variability differences in the timing of growth cessation was found to be rather small . Finally two simple models for predicting the onset of dormancy based on the accumulation of a certain amount of chilling are presented . Calibration and validation was performed with independent datasets from Experiments 1 2 and 3 . Validation tests highlighted the reliability of both models in reproducing the date of growth cessation .

@highlight Low autumn temperatures induce growth cessation in shoot apical meristems of olive.
@highlight The subsequent dormant state is easily reversed after the exposure to warm conditions.
@highlight Growth rate upon budbreak is related to the length of the preceding dormant period.
@highlight Cultivar differences in the onset of winter dormancy are small.
@highlight Two simple models for predicting the onset of dormancy are presented and tested.
