 The primary goal of the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement is to limit future global warming to less than 2.0C above pre industrial levels . Thus understanding the impacts of relatively low warming level on rice production is essential to future food security of China . Here with the latest global warming scenarios from the Half a degree Additional warming Projections Prognosis and Impacts project we assess the impacts of the two HAPPI scenarios on rice production for two major rice cropping systems including single season rice and double season rice . A multi model ensemble approach was used to predict the changes of rice production across the main rice growing regions of China under 1.5C and 2.0C warming scenarios . Results show that increases in mean rice growing season temperature under 1.5C and 2.0C warming scenarios are highest in central China . Likewise the increase in GST during the reproductive growth phase is greater than that during the vegetative growth phase . The whole rice growing season duration is shortened by about 315 and 4.518 days under 1.5C and 2.0C warming scenarios respectively . Most of the shortening in GSD w occurs due to a shortening of the vegetative growth phase . Using a stepwise multiple regression procedure we find that the yield changes of single season rice and late season rice are significantly negatively correlated with both GST r and GSD v. When examining early season rice yield changes are significantly negatively correlated with both GST v and GSD r. Under 1.5 C and 2.0 C warming scenarios without carbon dioxide CO

@highlight A multi crop model ensemble approach was used to assess the impacts of 1.5C and 2.0C global warming on rice production.
@highlight Total production will derease by 5.3 and 11.4 without CO
@highlight effect under 1.5C and 2.0C scenarios.
@highlight Elevated CO
@highlight could offset the negative impacts of increasing temperature mostly.
@highlight Global warming has a positive effect on rice yield under elevated CO
@highlight in northeast China.
