 As global surface temperatures rise the percentage of total precipitation that falls in extreme events is increasing in many areas including the U.S. Midwest a major agricultural region . While it is well known that losses of nitrogen fertilizers applied in excess of crop N demand have consequences for non agricultural ecosystems the effects of rainfall intensification on N losses from agricultural fields are uncertain . We conducted a 234 day field experiment in which we evaluated the effects of rainfall intensification on N leaching soil inorganic N pools soil N transformations and crop N content in replicated tilled and no till row crop systems of the upper Midwest . Under rainfall exclusion shelters we exposed 55m plots to a control rainfall treatment with relatively small frequent rainfall events historically typical of the region and an intensified rainfall treatment with the same total rainfall added in larger less frequent events . Although rainfall intensification increased modeled water percolation to 1.2m in both tilled and no till systems as reported previously it increased nitrate leaching only in tilled systems . Extractable soil nitrate concentrations throughout the experiment were on average 32 higher in surface soils exposed to intensified rainfall compared to control rainfall regardless of tillage management . In situ net N mineralization and nitrification rates measured during a two week period in summer showed no significant differences between rainfall or tillage treatments . Inorganic N pools were 43 greater in no till soils compared to tilled soils and were unaffected by rainfall intensification crop N concentrations and total N were likewise unaffected . Our results suggest that rainfall intensification in tilled cropping systems will increase N leaching to groundwater with consequent economic and environmental harm . No till management however may buffer systems against the effects of intensification on nitrate loss .

@highlight Rainfall intensification increased nitrate leaching from tilled cropping systems.
@highlight Rainfall intensification had no effect on nitrate leaching from no till systems.
@highlight Intensification increased surface soil nitrate but had no effect on crop N.
@highlight No till management may buffer cropping systems against increased N leaching losses.
