 The influence of landscape features on the occurrence and size of forest fires in Northern Europe has not been well studied . In this paper we analyzed the impact of human related landscape properties biotic features and fire weather indices on the occurrence and size of forest fires in Sweden from 1998 to 2017 . To analyze the environmental controls of fire occurrence and fire size under different levels of climatological fire hazard we divided the data into two subsets large fire years defined as the years with the total amount of burned area being higher than the dataset wide average and the remaining years . Our analytical approach was based on spatial models using Integrated Nested Laplace Approximations . Models built on both LFY and nLFY subsets suggested a strong human influence on fire occurrence road density the number of firebreaks and population density all were positively associated with fire occurrence suggesting an important role of human related ignitions . The southernmost vegetation zones in Sweden exhibited the highest fire occurrence a pattern potentially related to a higher population density in combination with weather more conducive for fires in this part of the country . The patterns that emerged from the fire size models pointed to the climate as the main factor controlling fire size irrespective of the type of years analyzed . Road density number of firebreaks and population density showed a negative association with fire size possibly indicating higher efficiency of fire suppression in the areas with higher human presence . Vegetation zones were selected as an informative predictor indicating that the fire activity varies across the zones with those in mid Sweden being the most prone to large events . The ISI correlated strongly and positively with fire size in both subsets pointing to the role of weather conditions favorable for fire spread primarily that of surface fires . The BUI showed a weak negative correlation to fire size indicating that dryness of organic horizon specifically its deeper layers is less relevant for predicting fire size . Contemporary fire activity in Sweden is driven by a combination of human related ignitions and weather conditions controlling fire spread with a moderate effect of vegetation composition and generally efficient fire suppression . Human related landscape features play a major role in shaping ignition patterns whereas climate and vegetation properties appear informative as predictors of fire size even under a modern fire suppression effort .

@highlight We analyzed the impact of climate and landscape properties on fire occurrence and size in Sweden.
@highlight We used a Bayesian approach to build statistical models.
@highlight Human related landscape features shape ignition patterns whereas climate and vegetation predict fire size.
