 Near real time crop phenology detection is essential for crop management estimation of harvest time and yield estimation . Previous approaches to crop phenology detection have relied on time series vegetation index data and have included threshold based phenometrics based and shape model fitting based methods . However the performance of these methods depends on the duration and temporal resolution of the time series data . In this study we propose a new approach which identifies the principal growth stages of rice directly from RGB images . Only a mono temporal unmanned aerial vehicle imagery was required for a large area phenology detection via the well trained network . An efficient convolutional neural network architecture was designed to estimate rice phenology . The CNN incorporated spatial pyramid pooling transfer learning and an auxiliary branch with external data . A total of 82 plots across a 160 hectare rice cultivation area of Southern China were selected to evaluate the proposed network . CNN predictions were ground truthed using rice phenology measurements taken from each plot throughout the growing season . Aerial data were collected using a fixed wing UAV equipped with multispectral and RGB cameras . The performance of traditional SMF methods deteriorated when time series VI data were of short duration . In contrast the phenological stage estimated by the proposed network showed good agreement with ground observations with a top 1 accuracy rate of 83.9 and mean absolute error of 0.18 . The spatial distribution of harvest dates for 627 plots in the study area were computed from the phenological stage estimates . The estimates matched well with the observed harvest dates . The results demonstrated the excellent performance of the proposed deep learning approach in near real time phenology detection and harvest time estimation .

@highlight Using CNN to detect rice phenology by a mono temporal imagery of UAV was investigated.
@highlight Shape model fitting method underperformed with short length of time series data.
@highlight Integrating regional mean thermal time into CNN improve the detection accuracy.
@highlight The estimated harvest dates was in close agreement with the observation.
@highlight The proposed approach provides near real time estimation of the principal phenological stages of rice.
