 Foresight of grain yields prior to harvest would be empowering for many stakeholders along the supply chain from farmers through to bulk handlers banks and insurance companies . Estimating Australian grain production ahead of harvest is difficult for many reasons including the highly variable year to year rainfall . The rainfall in the final months prior to harvest can be crucial to final harvest totals . Here we explore the importance of rainfall from September 1 which broadly corresponds to the close of the top dressing fertilizer application window for the remaining cropping season in determining final yield . This is assessed via sensitivity analysis of water limited wheat potential yield totals from historical climate in the APSIM crop model . At locations where the rainfall influences wheat yield we compare three methods to forecast wheat yields that differ based on the climate data input 1 climatology approach which uses 30 years of observed climate data 2 analogue climatology which uses information from climate drivers to create analogue years and 3 dynamical climate forecasts from a general circulation model . We find that potential yields strongly depend on in season plant available water where years with high PAW are unaffected by the late season rainfall . Predicting the potential yield from analogue climatology had the greatest skill with smallest Root Mean Squared Error of 0.45 t ha . This approach ranked first for 42 of the study locations compared to the climatology and ACCESS S forecasting methods . This knowledge can help inform decision makers about the need to incorporate seasonal climate forecasts and the most appropriate climate forecasting method .

@highlight Late season climate causes high variability in potential wheat yield across Australia.
@highlight Locations towards inner margin of the wheatbelt have high variability in potential yield.
@highlight Uncertainty in potential yield is not always directly related to the uncertainty in late cropping season rainfall.
@highlight Yield predictions based on climate drivers outperform climatology and ACCESS S.
