 To create effective conservation measures for pollinators we need to understand how landscape structure affects their distribution . We examined the effects of forest proximity on bumblebee communities in a modern agricultural landscape in the forest rich hemi boreal region . We contrasted bumblebee communities in field margins located next to forest with margins located next to open habitats . We also assessed the effect of forest proportion in the surrounding landscape on bumblebee species richness and abundance . Additionally the effects of margin area and flower abundance on the species richness and abundance of bumblebees were evaluated . Both the species richness and abundance were higher in the margins next to forest compared to the margins next to open habitats . Higher proportion of forest in the surrounding landscape as well as larger margin area and higher flower abundance also resulted in the higher species richness and abundance of bumblebees . Importantly these positive responses to increasing forest cover and habitat quality occurred only or were considerably stronger in the margins next to forest . In conclusion our results show that the proximity of forest favours the species richness and abundance of bumblebees in modern agricultural hemi boreal landscapes . The proportion of forest cover in the region should be considered while developing landscape level conservation strategies and margins next to forest should be given priority while planning local conservation measures .

@highlight Field margins next to forest support higher bumblebee diversity and abundance compared to open field margins.
@highlight Higher proportion of forest cover in the surrounding landscape favours higher bumblebee diversity and abundance in field margins.
@highlight The supporting effect of forest in the surrounding landscape is stronger in field margins next to forest compared to open margins.
@highlight Landscape structure should be taken into account while planning conservation measures for pollinators.
