 Mediterranean ecosystems are especially sensitive to the effects of intensive agriculture . Therefore sustainable practices based on the protection of organic matter and water in soil are of great interest in these systems . Among these practices tillage and crop rotation could induce changes in soil properties and consequently on soil microbial communities which play a fundamental role in soil fertility . In this work we evaluated the changes in some soil chemical and biochemical properties induced by different tillage types non tillage reduced tillage and traditional tillage in a trial that was established 10 years ago in a typical Mediterranean crop rotation . Phospholipid fatty acid analysis was performed to test the effect of tillage on the structure of the soil microbial community . Two soil samplings were performed one after tillage operation and the other during the late stage of a legume crop to compare the effects of long term tillage and crop development in these variables . Results indicated that conservation tillages had positive effects on soil chemical properties in comparison to TT especially during the fallow period . Crop production however was similar between treatments . Some biochemical and biological parameters were better indicators of the effect of tillage type on soil than chemical variables . PLFA profiles were more different among tillage types during the fallow period but when PLFAs were assigned into functional groups the tillage effect was more evident after crop development when conservation tillage promoted a higher abundance of soil fungi over bacteria . We strongly recommend that PLFA analysis should be performed on fallow period before tillage operations and to couple PLFA measurement with at least one method of microbial activity in order to fully assess the impact of different tillage systems on soil functioning . The results have allowed to 1 quantify the effect of tillage on the distribution of bacterial and fungal communities in the soil and on its functionality during the development of a legume crop and 2 establish that the combined use of chemical and biological variables is necessary to set up indicators of soil quality in tillage comparison trials .

@highlight The composition of soil microbial communities and their functionality were studied.
@highlight Tillage and climatic conditions concur to shape the soil PLFA profiles.
@highlight PLFA combined to enzyme activities are useful proxies to monitor soil quality.
@highlight After harvest samplings provide more reliable data insensitive to crop variability.
@highlight Chisel plough is the most sustainable tillage under Mediterranean conditions.
