 Soil structure degradation declining soil organic matter and nutrient losses are among major drawbacks of continuous conventional tillage with large scale environmental consequences including decreasing soil productivity groundwater contamination and greenhouse gases emissions . This becomes especially true in conventionally tilled Mediterranean croplands which are also affected by severe climatic conditions . In this study a one year field experiment was carried out to investigate the impact of different tillage practices on the soil fertility status in two tree orchards soils with contrasting texture carbonate content and pH located in Southern Italy . Treatments included in this study were conventional tillage conventional tillage combined with the incorporation of solid anaerobic digestate and no tillage . Changes in the aggregate stability and dynamics of various C and N pools were assessed by monitoring a large set of physical chemical biochemical and eco physiological soil variables . Results showed that the stability of soil aggregates declined under conventional tillage remained unaltered under no tillage improved after digestate amendment . Moreover following incorporation of digestate large and long lasting increase of the organic pool microbial C use efficiency and release of soluble C and N forms were observed in the fine textured soil . Whereas opposite responses were found in the moderately coarse alkaline soil where incorporation of digestate stimulated C resources depletion microbial respiration and N losses due to ammonia volatilization with less beneficial effects on soil organic pools . On the other hand no tillage prevented soil C and N resources from over exploitation with greater beneficial effects on microbial C use efficiency and biomass found in the coarse than in the fine textured soil . Our findings suggest that improved management practices such as no tillage or conventional tillage combined with incorporation of solid anaerobic digestate should specifically deal with soil and climate conditions to became effective for restoring the fertility status in Mediterranean orchard soils .

@highlight Aggregate stability declined under conventional tillage remained unaltered under no tillage improved after digestate amendment.
@highlight In digestate treated soils microbial C use efficiency and N balance oppositely varied depending on textural and chemical properties.
@highlight No tillage exerted greater beneficial effects on microbial C use efficiency and biomass in the coarse than in the fine textured soil.
@highlight Magnitude and persistence of soil responses were influenced by soil texture and carbonate content.
