 Understanding the relationship between fire and weather has important implications for fire danger evaluations firefighting and fire management . Fire weather indices are mathematical representations of a suite of meteorological variables that are often used as decision support tools for evaluating the likelihood of fire on a given day . However these indices are seldom evaluated for their ability to express a probability in terms of final burnt area which is a very important fire danger component . We propose a new approach for selecting fire weather indices that represent good proxies for both the probability of fire occurrence on a particular day and of the related final burnt area . The novel performance metric was applied to historical data from four European regions with different fire regimes in Switzerland and Italy . The results confirm the suitability of the approach for selecting an appropriate fire weather index for a particular region and for providing insight into the regional meteorological control patterns of fire ignition and spread . For three of the six fire regime types analyzed the prediction power for burnt area of most indices was generally in accordance with estimates of fire ignition risk . For the remaining case studies fire ignition and burnt area appear to be controlled by different meteorological or non climatic drivers . In these cases the selection of the most suitable index should be based on a cutoff that optimizes the two selection criteria according to local needs . From an operational point of view this novel approach that includes the burnt area aspect can strongly support decisions on firefighting alert and preparedness as well as requested firefighting strategies .

@highlight We propose a new performance measure for fire danger rating based on final burnt area
@highlight We propose calling the new metric Cumulative Area Ranking Efficiency CARE 
@highlight Optionally the burnt area may be log CLARE or rank CRARE transformed
@highlight We used this metric to assess the best suited fire danger rating indices
@highlight We tested the proposed approach in different fire regimes in Italy and Switzerland
