 The objective of the following paper is to identify weather related thresholds for wildfire danger i.e . the potential extent of fire based on local weather conditions . The target area is Greece a wildfire prone Mediterranean country which experienced on average 2000 wildfires annually over the last two decades . Initially the Fire Weather Index component of the Canadian Fire Weather Index System adopted by the European Forest Fire Information System is evaluated with respect to its wildfire danger predictive ability . Hence weather and wildfire data at municipality level and on a daily basis for the period 20002016 are exploited . The analysis showed that the FWI thresholds proposed by EFFIS for assessing the level of fire danger in Europe are too low for the case of Greece and therefore are not representative of the country s fire weather conditions . Two statistical approaches cluster analysis and non linear least squares regression are subsequently applied to determine the most appropriate FWI thresholds for discrete levels of wildfire danger . The results are presented in 4 sets of FWI thresholds and they are further evaluated on the basis of verification measures . All sets of FWI thresholds were found to significantly improve the predictability of wildfire danger compared to the EFFIS fire danger class thresholds . In particular two of them were found to meet selected performance requirements for a balanced predictive performance namely a reduced overestimation of wildfire danger and increased reliability in danger classification . The results are expected to have significant practical implications for wildfire prevention and risk mitigation strategies implemented by the forest fire control agencies of the country .

@highlight FWI thresholds for 4 fire danger classes are identified adopted to Greek conditions.
@highlight Weather and fire data at municipality level on a daily basis for 17 yrs are used.
@highlight Predictive performance of new FWI thresholds vs the EFFIS ones is highly improved.
@highlight Overestimation of danger decreases reliability of danger classification increases.
