 Flooded rice production is crucial to global food security but there are associated environmental concerns . In particular it is a significant source of methane and nitrous oxide emissions and a large consumer of water resources while arsenic levels in the grain are a serious health concern . There is also a tendency to use more organic fertilisers to close nutrient cycles posing a threat of even higher GHG emissions and grain arsenic levels . It has been shown that alternate wetting and drying water management reduces both water use and GHG emissions but success at maintaining yields varies . This study tested the effect of early AWD versus continuous flooding water management practices on grain yields GHG emissions and grain arsenic levels in a split plot field experiment with organic fertilisers under organic management . The treatments included i farmyard manure ii compost and iii biogas digestate alone or in combination with mineral fertiliser . The e AWD water regime showed no difference in yield for the organic treatments . Yields significantly increased by 516 in the combination treatments . Root biomass and length increased in the e AWD treatments up to 72 and 41 respectively . The e AWD water regime reduced seasonal CH4 emissions by 7185 for organic treatments and by 5176 for combination treatments this was linked to a 1547 reduction in dissolved organic carbon thereby reducing methanogenesis . N2O emissions increased by 23305 but accounted for 20 of global warming potential . Area and yield scaled GWPs were reduced by 6783 . The eAWD regime altered soil redox potentials resulting in a reduction in grain arsenic and lead concentrations of up to 66 and 73 respectively . Grain cadmium levels were also reduced up to 33 in organic treatments . Structural equation modelling showed that DOC redox ammonium and root biomass were the key traits that regulated emissions and maintained yield . Despite the fact that the experiment was conducted in the dry season when soil moisture conditions can be relatively well controlled our findings should be confirmed in multi year studies in farmers fields . These results suggest that in flooded rice systems receiving organic amendments or organic management the e AWD water regime can achieve multiple environmental and food safety objectives without compromising yield .

@highlight e AWD water regime reduced seasonal CH
@highlight emissions up to 85 .
@highlight DOC was reduced up to 47 which was linked to the reduction of CH
@highlight emissions.
@highlight Grain As Pb and Cd levels were reduced up to 65 72 and 33 respectively.
@highlight Root biomass and length increased up to 72 which was linked to the yield increase.
@highlight Yield scaled GWPs were reduced up to 84 compared to conventional CF practice.
