 Assimilating remote sensing data with crop growth model is a promising method to estimate crop yields over a large area . However the method is always subject to the problems with biases in remote sensing products and assimilation weights in practical applications . In this study we demonstrated the robustness of a spatial assimilation method in dealing with the biases in three different remote sensing leaf area index products . We further explored assimilation strategies for determining the assimilation weights when using spatial assimilation method . Three different remote sensing LAI products were assimilated with MCWLA Wheat model in the North China Plain during 20082015 . The results demonstrated that the spatial assimilation method was robust in mitigating the influences of biased LAI values and easily coupled with various LAI products based on different sources and retrieving algorithms . Furthermore we found that the historical experiences of the optimal assimilation weights were not suitable to directly drive data assimilation in the coming seasons . Thus data assimilation strategies to estimate crop yields without prior knowledge on the optimal assimilation weights were investigated . Two ensemble mean based assimilation strategies were recommended which could reach 84 98 of yield estimation accuracy using the optimal assimilation weights . This study provides reliable and promising solutions for yield estimation over a large area using data assimilation without being limited by the biased state variables in remote sensing products and the lack of prior knowledge on the optimal assimilation weights . The spatial assimilation method and the proposed ensemble mean based assimilation strategies have great potentials for wide applications laying solid foundations for developing crop growth monitoring and yield forecasting system .

@highlight Spatial assimilation algorithm is robust in mitigating impact of biased observation.
@highlight Historical experiences of assimilation weights are not suitable for coming season.
@highlight Ensemble strategy can well drive assimilation without knowing optimal weights.
