 A dataset of cherry full bloom dates across the full diversity of Australian growing regions was compiled and utilised for the first time . The primary data source was from growers located across Australia s major cherry growing districts . Records were of varying length and were used to investigate the potential of using data that substitute space for time in phenology assessments . Full bloom timing for three cultivars Bing Lapins and Van were collated . The data showed variation in full bloom time across the sites as well as inter annual variability within sites . This highlighted the potential benefit of a predictive model for growers to better manage the flowering period . The performance of the sequential and the chill overlap models were evaluated using this data . Both models resulted in good statistical representation of the data with RMSE of 3.2 to 5.3 days and 3.3 to 5.4 days for the training and validating data respectively . The parameterisations of the models differed with the sequential model estimating higher chilling requirement than the chill overlap model . The sequential model estimated similar heat requirements between the cultivars with Van marginally higher . The chill overlap model estimated a larger difference in the minimum heat requirement with Van higher than Bing and Lapins . Collation of grower records proved to be a valuable data source which in the absence of funded programs could be better utilised for further research that aligns outcomes with industry needs such as decision support around polliniser varieties design of growing systems and use of dormancy breakers to synchronise flowering for optimal fruit set and quality .

@highlight Knowledge of cherry phenology helps growers manage climate variability and change.
@highlight High quality long term records are not often available.
@highlight Australian grower records of cherry full bloom were used in lieu of long term data.
@highlight The sequential and chill overlap models were evaluated both performed well.
@highlight Data that substitute time for space can increase knowledge and improve management.
