 Biodiversity can be characterised across several dimensions which are crucial for the evaluation of ecosystem services . Functional diversity a key aspect of biodiversity provides a more realistic characterisation of the functioning of ecological communities than only studying their taxonomic diversity . The relevance of functional ecology studies has steadily increased in agroecosystems . However the combined effects of pesticides and land cover heterogeneity on the taxonomic and functional diversity of arthropod communities have been studied less frequently . We sampled arthropods during the dry season in 19 rice fields located in two different regions of Northern Vietnam . We assorted the arthropods into functional groups corresponding to different feeding habits and calculated the taxonomic and functional group diversities . Finally we analysed the impacts of pesticide applications and land cover heterogeneity on both diversity measures . Taxonomic and functional group diversity measures were highly correlated . In turn both diversity measures responded similarly to land cover heterogeneity and pesticides . Land cover heterogeneity had positive effects on taxonomic and functional group diversity mainly at the early stage of rice crops . Conversely the impact of pesticide application on both diversity measures was strongly negative . Our results suggest that rice agroecosystems can be more sustainable by increasing landscape heterogeneity and a reduced pesticide use . Such schemes may help to maintain higher levels of biodiversity that ensure ecosystem functioning which will be therefore likely beneficial to provide ecosystem services in agroecosystems .

@highlight We sampled arthropods in 19 rice fields of Northern Vietnam.
@highlight Taxonomic and functional group diversity of arthropods were highly correlated.
@highlight Increasing number of pesticide applications decreases both diversity measures.
@highlight Land cover heterogeneity increases both diversity measures.
