 The traditional agricultural landscape of Ebro Basin which is mainly composed of alfalfa and cereal crops has undergone changes in recent years mainly consisting of an increase in the area occupied by intensively managed irrigated orchards . Recently it has been reported that the presence of a higher proportion of orchards in the landscape and their management negatively affect the abundance and diversity of natural enemies . Two hypotheses are tested in this study the increased orchard surface has led to a reduction in natural enemies in neighbouring maize crops and the higher alfalfa proportion of agricultural land enhances the predatory fauna on maize . Maize fields were selected across a landscape gradient created by orchards and field crops in a buffer of 500 m. The abundance of 17 insect taxa in each maize field was estimated by means of 3 yellow sticky traps per season over three years . The insect abundance was related to the landscape structure and local variables . Our results show that the proportion of orchards in the landscape had negative effects on the main predators and alfalfa had positive effects on herbivores and their predators . Semi natural habitats and landscape diversity had low effects on insect abundance . However variables at the local level included more significant effects than landscape structure maize growth stages and abundance of potential prey or predators on the crop were the most influential variables at a local level . Here we show the interplay between different land uses types and local management and their impact on natural enemies and herbivores in maize crops in the Mediterranean area .

@highlight Alfalfa surface in the landscape enhances the abundance of predators and herbivores.
@highlight Orchard surface in the landscape may lead to suppression of potential predators.
@highlight Non crop habitats and forest proportions and landscape Shannon diversity had minor effects.
@highlight At local scale the maize growth stages had higher effects on the abundance of insect.
