 Measurements of the surface energy fluxes and other ancillary atmospheric soil parameters made in the Columbia River Basin in an area of complex terrain during a 10 month long portion of the second Wind Forecast Improvement Project field campaign are used to study the surface energy budget and surface fluxes over different temporal scales . This study analyzes and discusses SEB closure based on half hourly daily monthly seasonal and sub annual temporal averages . The data were collected over all four seasons for different states of the underlying ground surface . Our half hourly direct measurements of energy balance show that the sum of the turbulent sensible and latent heat fluxes systematically underestimate positive net radiation by around 2030 during daytime and overestimate negative net radiation at night . This imbalance of the surface energy budget is comparable to other terrestrial sites . However on average the residual energy imbalance is significantly reduced at daily weekly and monthly averaging timescales and moreover the SEB can be closed for this site within reasonable limits on seasonal and sub annual timescales . Increasing the averaging time to daily and longer time intervals substantially reduces the ground heat flux and storage terms because energy locally entering the soil air column and vegetation in the morning is released in the afternoon and evening . Averaging on daily to sub annual timescales also reduces random instrumental measurement errors and other uncertainties as well as smooths out a hysteresis effect in the SEB relationship between different components . This study shows that SEB closure is better for dry soils compared to wet soils and the statistical dependence of the turbulent fluxes and net radiation for freezing soil surfaces appears weak if not non existent apparently due to lack of the latent heat of fusion term in the traditional SEB equation .

@highlight SEB closure is discussed on half hourly daily monthly seasonal and annual scales.
@highlight SEB imbalance for half hourly averaged fluxes is 2030 during daytime.
@highlight Increasing averaging time intervals substantially reduces the SEB imbalance.
@highlight SEB closure was lower for wet soils compared to dry at all averaging timescales.
