 The complex terrain and concentrated rainfall results in the loss of rainwater in the form of runoff which aggravates soil erosion and nutrient loss in hilly areas around the world . Thus low rainwater utilization rates and severe agricultural non point source pollution from hillslope land are the main global issues of concern in agriculture . The aims of this study were to improve in situ rainfall use retain soil nutrients from loss and reduce AGNSP . This study characterized runoff and planned its harvesting engineering in Juxing village Guandu town which is located in the northeastern portion of Hechuan District Chongqing municipality the Sichuan Hilly Basin of China by applying a geographic information system based on the soil conservation service and overland flow models revealing the effects on soil nitrogen and phosphorus conservation . The results showed that more than 97 of the total annual runoff occurred from April to October and the total annual runoff in each catchment ranged from 373 mm to 529 mm . Slope land leveling increased the soil thickness of slope land to within approximately 2030 cm and decreased the grades to within approximately 515 thereby effectively improving the residence time and effective soil water storage by approximately 20140 and 30131 respectively . Although the soil reservoir improved after leveling the maximum water deficit in unirrigated land was recorded in August . Thus considering the spatial variation in soil land use patterns topography and runoff in the study area 24 additional ponds were built . The irrigation water of these ponds could supply approximately 89 of the required water storage . In addition compared with the values before runoff harvesting engineering construction the total N total P available N and available P capacities of the unirrigated land soils in the study area after RHE construction increased by approximately 25.5 27.4 78.4 and 139.4 respectively and the TN NH

@highlight A method using GIS and SCS CN was proposed to plan runoff harvesting engineering.
@highlight Runoff harvesting engineering improved irrigation and soil tilth.
@highlight Runoff harvesting engineering increased soil N and P conservation.
@highlight Runoff harvesting engineering reduced agricultural non point source pollution.
