 Insect pollination is a globally important ecosystem service contributing to crop yields production stability and the maintenance of wild plant populations . Ironically agriculture is one of the major global drivers of wild insect pollinator decline . At the same time increasing human population is driving ever greater demands on crop production . Agroforestry a more diverse farming system integrating woody and agricultural crops can theoretically reconcile high production with provision of ecosystem services such as pollination . However empirical studies of pollination in temperate AF systems are almost entirely lacking . We sought to fill this knowledge gap by assessing whether AF can provide increased pollination service compared to monoculture systems . Six UK sites each containing an AF and a MC system were studied over three years . Wild pollinator abundance and diversity were used as proxies for the magnitude and stability respectively of the pollinating community . We also directly measured pollination service as seed set in a wild plant phytometer . We found that temperate AF systems can provide greater pollination service than MC AF treatments had twice as many solitary bees and hoverflies and in arable systems 2.4 times more bumblebees than MC treatments . AF also had 4.5 times more seed set compared to MC in one of the two years . At 40 of site by year sampling units species richness of solitary bees was on average 10.5 times higher in AF treatments . This provides evidence in favour of the expectation that AF systems can support higher pollinator richness and therefore greater potential stability of pollination service . For the other sampling units and for bumblebees

@highlight We studied wild pollinators in 6 paired UK agroforestry and monoculture sites.
@highlight Pollinator abundance and seed set were higher in agroforestry than monoculture.
@highlight Species richness of solitary bees was higher in some of the agroforestry systems.
@highlight Temperate agroforestry can provide greater pollination service than monoculture.
@highlight Ecosystem services outcomes must be planned at the design stage of new agroforestry systems.
