 Many phenology models have been developed to explain historical trends in plant phenology and to forecast future ones . Two main types of model can be distinguished correlative models that statistically relate descriptors of climate to the date of occurrence of a phenological event and process based models that build upon explicit causal relationships determined experimentally . While process based models are believed to provide more robust projections in novel conditions it is still unclear whether this assertion always holds true and why . In addition the efficiency and robustness of the two model categories have rarely been compared . Here we aimed at comparing the efficiency and the robustness of correlative and process based phenology models with contrasting levels of complexity in both historical and future climatic conditions . Models were calibrated validated and compared using budburst dates of five tree species across the French Alps collected during 8 years by a citizen science program . Process based models were less efficient yet more robust than correlative models even when their parameter estimates relied entirely on inverse modeling i.e . parameter values estimated using observed budburst dates and optimization algorithms . Their robustness further slightly increased when their parameter estimates relied on forward estimation i.e . parameter values measured experimentally . Our results therefore suggest that the robustness of process based models comes both from the fact that they describe causal relationships and the fact that their parameters can be directly measured . Process based models projected a reduction in the phenological cline along the elevation gradient for all species by the end of the 21

@highlight Process based phenology models were more robust than correlative models.
@highlight Robustness of process based models increase when their calibration could rely on forward estimation.
@highlight Process based models projected a reduction in the phenological cline along the elevation gradient by the end of the 21
@highlight century.
