 We present an analysis of the sensitivity of three key crops produced in the northwestern United States to climatic and agricultural market anomalies using widely used standardized indices . Rather than investigating sensitivity of crop yields we focus on agricultural production anomalies which captures both variations in yield and the effect of decision making factors such as allocation of cropping area . We used two well known standardized precipitation and reference evapotranspiration indices and a standardized crop value index in a multivariate linear regression analysis to determine the characteristic timing and time scales of precipitation and ETo anomalies that best explain annual crop production anomalies . Since climatic and market factors are standardized regression coefficients are interpreted as a sensitivity measure that captures the relative effect of climatic and agricultural markets on agricultural production . Results show that alfalfa production was most sensitive climatic anomalies while barley and wheat production was more responsive to crop prices . Sensitivity to precipitation anomalies followed gradients in precipitation temperature and soil moisture regimes across the study area where drier and warmer climates were associated with increased sensitivity to climatic anomalies . We found that irrigation decoupled alfalfa production from climatic variability but the effect of irrigation on decoupling barley production was less clear . Winter wheat production was most sensitive to price anomalies and alfalfa was least sensitive . Omitting agricultural market conditions and other farmer incentives may introduce biases in our understanding of how drought and climate change impact agricultural production .

@highlight Agricultural production sensitive to climatic anomalies over longer time scales than yield.
@highlight Alfalfa production more sensitive to climatic anomalies than barley or winter wheat.
@highlight Sensitivity of crop production to climatic anomalies followed gradients in precipitation and temperature.
@highlight Irrigation decoupled alfalfa production from climatic variability but less so with barley.
@highlight Price anomalies may reduce the sensitivity of production to climatic anomalies.
