 Crop phenological development models are fundamental tools that can be used for scheduling agricultural practices and predicting crop yields . In previous research different crop phenology models were compared and different parameterization methods for crop model calibration were evaluated which revealed that both model structures and parameterization methods were important for crop modeling . However few studies have considered the combination of both factors and compared these influences simultaneously . Therefore information regarding the extent of variation in model accuracy and uncertainty depending on model structure and parameterization method is lacking . In this study we developed three winter wheat phenology models with different structures i.e . the Agricultural Production System Simulator model for wheat Wang and Engel model and sigmoid and exponential function based model to predict the heading date as a case study . We calibrated these models using three different parameterization methods to investigate their effects on model accuracy and uncertainty . Six fold cross validation of nine combinations of model calibration and their validation revealed that accuracies ranged mostly from 2 to 7 days in the root mean square error . The coefficient of variation of RMSE varied widely in among model structures and parameterization methods . Furthermore the coefficient of variation of model parameters also varied substantially depending both on model structure and parameterization method . Especially for the model with more parameters we found that the prediction and parameter stability varied depending on parameterization methods . These findings suggest that both prediction and parameter uncertainty varied with model structure and parameterization method and emphasize the importance of which models and parameterization methods modelers use for robust crop phenology model .

@highlight Three different model structuresthree parameterization methods were evaluated.
@highlight Prediction uncertainty varied in model structures and parameterization methods.
@highlight Parameter uncertainty also varied in model structures and parameterization methods.
@highlight The model with more parameters tended to have unstable prediction and parameters.
@highlight Both structure and parameterization methods matter for modeling crop phenology.
