 The use of uncontrolled fire by human beings associated with climate conditions favorable to burning has caused social economic and environmental damage in different parts of the world . The objective of the present study was to evaluate the variations in the occurrence of fire in Southern Region of Brazil caused by the seasonal characteristics of the years . We also sought to highlight the vegetation coverings most affected by fires within each year assessed and among the different ENSO events . Fire products from the MODIS were associated with meteorological elements and vegetation cover data in addition to evaluating Carbon emission data made available by GFED . The correlation between the meteorological elements and fire was obtained by Spearman s non parametric approach . Additionally Mann Kendall s statistical test was performed with the harvested area extensions of three temporary agricultural crops over 28 years . Fire in Southern Brazil correlates mainly with reduced rainfall and relative air humidity together with increased atmospheric pressure and increased wind speed . The periods under the effect of the cold phase of the phenomenon presented 26 to 114 more fire foci than those under the hot phase . La Nias also showed 7 to 77 more burned area than El Nios . La Nia events emitted more carbon into the atmosphere than El Nio and the greatest difference was observed between La Nia 2007 2008 and El Nio 2015 . The vegetation covers most affected by the fire were those related to agricultural activity . Mann Kendall s statistics indicated that Sugarcane an agricultural crop with flammable straw showed a tendency to expand in the state of Paran between 1990 and 2018 . Intra and inter annual atmospheric variations and the mosaic of different vegetation covers determined the fire pattern in the study area over the period studied .

@highlight New findings on fire studies in southern Brazil.
@highlight Recent studies associating fire carbon emission and land use and cover.
@highlight Future directions regarding fire control and enforcement of carbon emissions laws.
