 Nutrient emissions from paddy fields are one of the main sources of agricultural non point source pollution . Based on the 4R strategical system of agricultural NPS pollution control ecological ditches are effective control measures under the Retain system . In this study the nutrient removal efficiency and stoichiometric variations in three different ecological ditch systems were studied in order to better understand the long term performance of ecological ditches and to determine which type of ecological ditch system is optimal for the removal of agricultural NPS pollutants . The results indicated that the converted ecological ditch significantly reduced nutrient levels in two year rice season runoff compared to a traditional concrete ditch . The average removal efficiencies of total organic carbon total nitrogen and total phosphorus in the converted ecological ditch were 20.8 37.0 and 44.4 respectively . All ecological ditch types had considerable capacity to remove nutrients in simulated rice season runoff . There were no significant differences in the efficiency of nutrient removal between Eh and Es . However the results indicated that Eh systems could provide a relatively stable environment for plants with increased capacity to maintain biological homeostasis . Of the three ditch types Ec had a relatively low removal efficiency . Redundancy analysis indicated that leaf P content sediment C N ratio and root N content were more closely related to water variables and nutrient stoichiometric characteristics of water plants and sediment systems were significantly related to the nutrient removal capacity of ecological ditches . It is anticipated that this study will promote further development of the 4R strategical system and encourage additional improvements to ecological ditches so they can become more effective in reducing agricultural NPS pollution in the field .

@highlight Traditional concrete ditch was converted for removing NPS from paddy fields.
@highlight Higher removals of TOC TN and TP were obtained in the converted ecological ditch.
@highlight All ecological ditch types had capacities to remove nutrients in simulated runoff.
@highlight Eh had a relatively stable condition for plants to maintain biological homeostasis.
@highlight Stoichiometric characteristics water sediment and plants relate to nutrient removal.
