 Soil respiration is an important ecosystem process that releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere . While soil respiration can be measured continuously at high temporal resolutions gaps in the dataset are inevitable leading to uncertainties in carbon budget estimations . Therefore robust methods used to fill the gaps are needed . The process based non linear least squares regression is the most widely used gap filling method which utilizes the established relationship between the soil respiration and temperature . In addition to NLS we also implemented three other methods based on 1 artificial neural networks driven by temperature and moisture measurements 2 singular spectrum analysis relying only on the time series itself and 3 the expectation maximization approach referencing to parallel flux measurements in the spatial vicinity . Six soil respiration datasets from two boreal forests were used for benchmarking . Artificial gaps were randomly introduced into the datasets and then filled using the four methods . The time series based methods SSA and EM showed higher accuracies than NLS and ANN in small gaps . In larger gaps the performance was similar among NLS SSA and EM however ANN showed large errors in gaps that coincided with precipitation events . Compared to the observations gap filled data by SSA showed similar degree of variances and those filled by EM were associated with similar first order autocorrelation coefficients . In contrast data filled by both NLS and ANN exhibited lower variance and higher autocorrelation than the observations . For estimations of the annual soil respiration budget NLS SSA and EM resulted in errors between 3.7 and 5.8 given the budgets ranged from 463 to 1152g C m

@highlight The time series based methods showed higher accuracy in filling small gaps.
@highlight Data filled by singular spectrum analysis had similar variances to the observations.
@highlight Data gap filled by time series based methods had low errors in budget estimations.
