 The weather is an important driver of the wildfire incidence because it strongly influences fuel availability and flammability . In the Mediterranean climate the spatial and temporal patterns of fire weather present high variability which help to understand the variable fire regimes . To assess this link in the Iberian Peninsula and the role of fire weather on fire incidence variability this work identified pyro regions characterized the fire regimes in these regions and compared them with the spatial and seasonal distribution of several components of the Canadian Forest Fire Weather Index System . A cluster analysis was performed on monthly normalized burnt area series for the 19802015 period in each administrative division of the Iberian Peninsula which revealed four pyro regions as well as significant spatial and temporal variability of NBA patterns . A separate analysis for 19801997 and 19982015 revealed noteworthy changes in the border of pyro regions caused by changes in NBA seasonal patterns in some administrative regions . The analysis of the fire weather risk distribution for 19802017 included the assessment of extreme fire weather days defined as days with Daily Severity Rating above the 95th percentile for the summer fire season and as days with Drought Code above the 95th percentile for the winter spring fire season . The distribution of the monthly extreme fire weather days is highly correlated with the NBA seasonal variability and explains the differences between seasonal wildfire characteristics and the recent changes in the border administrative regions . The analysis of the fire weather patterns for large wildfires disclosed that these events were linked with extreme DSR days especially in the NW pyro region . These findings highlight the strong link between climate variability and fire regimes in the Iberian Peninsula and can therefore help assess the impacts of climate change and to project future burnt area patterns .

@highlight Iberian pyro regions were identified with normalized burnt area NBA clustering for different periods.
@highlight Recent changes in pyro regions borders were caused by changes in seasonal NBA patterns.
@highlight Changes in NBA patterns pyro regions can be explained with extreme fire weather patterns.
@highlight DSR and DC are the most relevant drivers amongst the fire weather indices.
@highlight A very strong link between DSR and extreme fires was found in the NW pyro region.
