 The Crop Progress Percentage in a given phenology stage reflects growth status in the crop life cycle . Generally routine field measurements of this variable are missing hence various alternative approaches have been proposed for its estimation . Hidden Markov Models which follow the Bayesian structure are helpful tools for this aim . In the current study an approach based on the parametric empirical Bayes method is used for more accurate estimation of the maize CPP at field scale . The CPP information recorded in three experiment sites i.e . Karaj Darab and Zarghan were used to validate the performance of the PEB method and to test the robustness . The PEB method includes a non homogeneous HMM along with an empirical method based on fitting a gamma probability density function on prior probabilities . Temporal sequence of phonological stages is regarded as the hidden layer and temporal sequence of NDVI and AGDD indices as the observable layer . The procedure of CPPs estimation is based on calculation of prior and posterior probabilities and an inverse normalization . The overall RMSE of the non homogeneous HMM before applying the empirical method was 15.1 11.5 and 7.8 for Karaj Darab and Zarghan respectively . However it was found that the applied HMM fails to estimate the CPPs of final phenological stages accurately . The averaging process of the prior probabilities does not include the errors produced by factors such as climate variability or farming practices . To overcome these problems we used an empirical Bayes method to estimate the hyperparameters of a gamma density function which was applied as a prior density . This simple approach to maintain the inter annual variability due to non physiological factors made the prior probabilities more flexible . The applied empirical Bayes approach had significantly smaller RMSE especially in final phenological stages and led to more accurate prediction of the phenological dates . The findings derived by PEB are more consistent with those obtained by HMM when the inter annual variability mainly date of sowing is minimum . The proposed modified approach can be recommended for use at the field scale and serve as a promising tool especially in the regions which suffer the inter annual variability .

@highlight The HMM and PEB approaches may be used for dynamic modeling of crop phenology.
@highlight The PEB reduces the errors produced by the inter annual variability compared to the HMM.
@highlight When the inter annual variability is limited the performance of HMM becomes more consistent with PEB method.
@highlight The proposed approach may serve as an accurate real time tool to monitor and predict crop phenology at field scale.
