 Making agriculture more sustainable requires a greater understanding of animal mediated ecosystem services . The beneficial effects of pest control and pollination provided by respectively insectivorous birds and pollinator insects are essential for many crops . Improving these ecosystem services simultaneously in the same crop system means first identifying the drivers of animal biodiversity that operate in agricultural landscapes and second revealing the relationships between biodiversity and the two services . Here for two years we addressed how landscape and small scale orchard features affected bird and insect biodiversity in cider apple orchards in northern Spain . We examined the effects of bird and insect biodiversity on the magnitude of respectively insectivory and pollination . Bird biodiversity was positively affected by the cover of apple canopy within orchards whereas that of pollinators responded positively to the cover of semi natural woody habitats and eucalyptus plantations in the surrounding landscape and also on the level of bloom at the orchard scale . Insectivory estimated from sentinel model and exclusion experiments was positively affected by increased abundance and richness of birds across orchards . Similarly fruit set responded positively to higher abundance and richness of wild bees whereas seed set mostly depended on the abundance of wild pollinators . Our findings suggest simultaneous positive effects of animal biodiversity on pest control and pollination in apple orchards with no sign of trade offs between biodiversity groups or between ecosystem functions . A multi scaled management of orchard level features and landscape level ones is encouraged for the simultaneous enhancement of pest control and pollination . Biodiversity farming win win scenarios are possible in cider apple orchards by simultaneously promoting multiple animal mediated ecosystem services .

@highlight Asturian cider apple orchards are rich in insectivorous birds and wild pollinators.
@highlight Bird abundance and richness are promoted by apple canopy cover within orchards.
@highlight More semi natural woody habitats around orchards increases pollinator biodiversity.
@highlight Animal biodiversity positively affects pest control and pollination in apple orchards.
@highlight Simultaneous management of landscape and orchard scale habitats will foster animal biodiversity.
