 Atmospheric ammonia is an important compound in the atmosphere because of its role in aerosol formation and its importance to the global nitrogen cycle . Livestock feeding operations are a major source of ammonia emissions to the atmosphere and ammonia concentrations near these large feedlots can be many orders of magnitude higher than background . These feedlots can impact regional ecology and air quality but uncertainty in the ammonia surface fluxes adjacent to these major sources can make the extent of the feedlot s impact difficult to determine . Ammonia surface fluxes are generally challenging to quantify with direct flux measurement techniques due to the challenges in conducting ammonia measurements with sufficient temporal resolution . Feedlots housing ruminant livestock such as cattle are also sources of methane . Because methane does not undergo appreciable dry deposition and is chemically inert on relevant spatial scales we can use it as a tracer to constrain the downwind dilution of feedlot ammonia emissions . The ratio of atmospheric ammonia to methane has been shown to decrease with increasing distance downwind of a feedlot due to deposition and aerosol partitioning of gas phase ammonia . In atmospheric conditions where inorganic aerosol formation is slow the ratio of ammonia to methane can be used to estimate of the fraction of ammonia that has undergone deposition downwind of the feedlot . We use a Large Eddy Simulation turbulent dispersion model to generate realistic concentration fields of atmospheric ammonia and methane concentrations downwind of a feedlot and we sample the model output to produce synthetic measurements of these tracers . We then use the synthetic observations of background corrected the ammonia methane concentration ratio to derive the ammonia deposition rate . In this study we explore conducting measurements from two platforms sensors deployed on a small unmanned aerial vehicle and on a surface based mobile observation platform . We find that the surface based platform overestimates of ammonia deposition by a factor of 1.5 due to sampling near the surface where ammonia concentrations are depleted . However use of the aerial platform allows more accurate estimation of the deposition fraction .

@highlight We simulated dispersion of NH
@highlight and CH
@highlight dispersion from an idealized animal feedlot.
@highlight The NH
@highlight deposition near the feedlot is inverted from changes to the NH
@highlight  CH
@highlight ratio.
@highlight The inversion strategy is tested using the synthetic observations.
@highlight The sampling strategies are optimized using a sensitivity analysis.
