 Catch crops may strongly reduce nitrate leaching during autumn and winter in temperate climates . Authorities therefore aim to stimulate farmers to place catch crops in their rotations by allowing them to apply more nitrogen to their fields . Furthermore some regulations make it possible to fertilize catch crops after harvest of specific crops such as winter cereals even if catch crops are sown during late summer . Some farmers claim that this practice is essential for a good development of the catch crop . However it is not sure whether this summer fertilization to catch crops could result in any additional nitrate leaching compared to nitrate leaching under non fertilized catch crops . We therefore designed field experiments including four different catch crop species each of them sown after harvest of winter cereals at two different dates and each of them receiving two different doses of pig slurry or receiving no fertilizer at all . Experiments were installed on sites with different soil textures in northern Belgium . Based on the results of soil mineral N and N uptake we assessed the risk of additional nitrate leaching caused by fertilization of catch crops . We found that the apparent uptake of N released from pig slurry was rather limited but sufficient to avoid additional nitrate leaching on sandy soils mainly due to supplementary immobilization of the applied N occurring during mineralization of the cereal crop residues . It is critical to mention the limiting conditions that we found to be adequate from our results catch crops were to be sown in good circumstances before September and could only receive the smallest dose of pig slurry which was approximately 60 kg N ha

@highlight No need to fertilize catch crops they did well without fertilization.
@highlight Trade off more shoot and root C input versus minor additional NO
@highlight leaching.
@highlight Small N dose acceptable for catch crops sown under good conditions in August.
@highlight Immobilization of pig slurry N by cereal stubble critical to supplement N uptake.
@highlight Choice of catch crop depends on harvest date of previous and sowing date of next crop.
