 Plant phenological shifts on the QinghaiTibetan Plateau have been a hot research topic during the recent decade . Most previous studies based on remote sensing data suggest that earlier spring green up is the main contributor to the prolonged vegetation growing season on the QTP . Given the large uncertainties of satellite derived phenology this study collected a large number of long term and continuous ground phenological observation data across the QTP . Based on these data we conducted comprehensive analyses of temporal changes in spring green up date autumn leaf senescence date and growing season length of herbaceous plants from 1981 to 2017 through ordinary least squares regression and meta analysis and evaluated the relative contribution of shifts in GUD and LSD to change in GSL using the C index . Results showed that the overall trends of GUD LSD and GSL insignificantly advanced at a rate of 0.17 days decade significantly delayed at a rate of 5.29 days decade and significantly lengthened at a rate of 5.46 days decade respectively . On average the relative contribution of LSD shift to GSL change was 69.3 which was more than twice that of GUD shift . Therefore it was mainly the delayed LSD rather than an advanced GUD that prolonged GSL of QTP herbaceous plants which was contrary to the prevailing conclusion reported by studies based on remote sensing data . Besides among three functional groups of herbaceous plants we found that change trends and patterns of the growing seasons seemed to be more favorable to the growth of forbs which might shift community structure and further influence ecosystem function . Our study suggests that the importance of autumn phenology has been underestimated on the QTP and more attention should be paid to the shift in autumn phenology and its influences on ecosystem structure and function under global warming .

@highlight The overall trend of growing season length significantly increased during 19812017.
@highlight Prolonged growing season length was mainly attributable to delayed autumn phenology.
@highlight Forbs may be more competitive than grasses and sedges due to more increase in GSL.
@highlight More attention should be paid to the shift in autumn phenology and its influences.
