 We quantified the response of peatland water table level and energy fluxes to harvesting of a drained peatland forest . Two alternative harvests were carried out in a mixed species ditch drained peatland forest in southern Finland where water and energy balance components were monitored for six pre treatment and three post treatment growing seasons . To explore the responses caused by harvestings we applied a mechanistic multi layer soil plant atmosphere transfer model . At the clear cut site the mean growing season WTL rose by 0.180.02m while net radiation and sensible and latent heat fluxes decreased after harvest . On the contrary we observed only minor changes in energy fluxes and mean WTL at the partial harvest site although as much as 70 of the stand basal area was removed and leaf area index was reduced to half . The small changes were mainly explained by increased water use of spruce undergrowth and field layer vegetation as well as increased forest floor evaporation . The rapid establishment of field layer vegetation had a significant role in energy balance recovery at the clear cut site . At partial harvest chlorophyll fluorescence measurements and model data comparison suggested the shade adapted spruce undergrowth was suffering from light stress during the first post harvest growing season . We conclude that in addition to stand basal area species composition and stand structure need to be considered when controlling WTL in peatland forests with partial harvesting . Our results have important implications on the operational use of continuous cover forestry on drained peatlands . A continuously maintained tree cover with significant evapotranspiration capacity could enable optimizing WTL from both tree growth and environmental perspectives .

@highlight Water table level and energy fluxes monitored after clear cut and partial harvest.
@highlight A multi species soil plant atmosphere transfer model applied to explore changes.
@highlight Harvesting 70 of stand basal area had marginal effects.
@highlight Remaining stand s structure and species composition play key role.
@highlight Post harvest vegetation recovery had high importance to energy balance.
