 Assessing how climate factors regulate the interannual variability of ecosystem productivity globally is crucial for understanding the ecosystem climate interactions and carbon climate feedbacks under a changing climate . However our understanding of global climatic controls on the IAV of ecosystem productivity has been limited by the lack of direct measurements of ecosystem productivity at the global scale . We used a long term fine resolution solar induced chlorophyll fluorescence product derived from SIF soundings measured by the Orbiting Carbon Observatory 2 to investigate how climatic factors drive the IAV of global ecosystem productivity . We also examined how the results derived from SIF differed from those based on a satellite derived measure of vegetation greenness and productivity the enhanced vegetation index derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer . Both productivity measures showed the dominant role of soil moisture in driving the IAV of global ecosystem productivity particularly in arid and semi arid areas . SIF was more sensitive to climate variability than was EVI . SIF was positively correlated with solar radiation in the humid regions while no significant correlations were found between EVI and solar radiation . The stronger correlation of SIF with climate factors was also observed at the ecosystem level based on a number of eddy covariance flux sites indicating that SIF had a higher ability in capturing the variations of gross primary productivity than did EVI . The comparison between SIF and EVI also highlighted the biome specific responses of ecosystem productivity to solar radiation under water stress . Our findings explicitly reveal the global climatic controls on the IAV of ecosystem productivity and provide insight into the mechanistic differences between SIF and vegetation indices in characterizing ecosystem productivity .

@highlight We examined the climate drivers of interannual variability of ecosystem productivity.
@highlight Soil moisture was the most important factor driving ecosystem productivity globally.
@highlight SIF was more sensitive to climate variability than was EVI.
@highlight SIF showed different responses to solar radiation during drought compared with EVI.
@highlight The stronger sensitivity of SIF to climate resulted in stronger SIF GPP relationship.
