 A series of policies and laws have been implemented to address climate change impacts in China since the 1980s . One of the most notable policies is ecological restoration engineering . However there are many environmental factors that affect vegetation in the ecological restoration engineering zones . The relationships among different factors can not be explained well by traditional statistical methods due to the existence of hidden non linear features . Moreover it is difficult to adopt threshold methods to accurately define vegetation areas fully or to quantitatively analyze and assess the effects of climate factors and human activities on vegetation changes . The objective of this study was to determine vegetation area and distribution using Landsat TM ETM OLI images combined with a support vector machine classification model . We analyzed the dynamic characteristics of vegetation area and greenness in China s ecological restoration engineering zones from 1990 to 2015 . Based on random forest regression with a residual analysis method the contributions of meteorological factors and human activities to vegetation greenness changes were quantitatively evaluated . Vegetation area and NDVI changed significantly in the study areas increasing by more than 50 and 40 respectively from 1990 to 2015 . Temperature sunshine hours and precipitation impacted vegetation greenness which caused NDVI fluctuations in specific years . However the NDVI increase was difficult to explain fully with meteorological factors . Using cross validation we predicted about 80 of the observed NDVI variation occurring from 1984 to 1994 . Nine meteorological factors were related to vegetation growth of which the average temperature minimum temperature maximum temperature and average relative humidity were most critical . The combined effect of the nine climatic factors contributed less to NDVI increase than human activities . Human activity was the most important factor associated with NDVI increase with contributions of more than 100 in most study areas . Human activities derived from national or local policies had large impacts on vegetation changes . The methods and results of this study can help to understand vegetation changes observed in ecological zones and provide guidance for evaluating ecological restoration policies .

@highlight Machine learning has great potential for assessing vegetation restoration and greenness.
@highlight RFR model using meteorological factors explained 80 of NDVI variation
@highlight Climate and human activities affect greening in China s ecological engineering zones
@highlight Human activity was the most important factor associated with NDVI increase
