 Land degradation desertification occurs widely in arid lands and its outcomes are ecologically economically and socially negative . It is one of the most serious environmental problems that the world has to face today . The establishment of shelterbelts is an effective way to combat desertification and increase crop productivity in arid land farming practices . The ideal state of a farmland shelterbelt should be one that provides maximum protective effect with minimum use in terms of land and water resources . The positive effects of the shelter forest in desertification control were widely demonstrated . However its effects on crop productivity are somewhat equivocal . Most studies were carried out at the plot or field scale for evaluation on areas larger than the field scale or plot scale is difficult to undertake due to difficulties in setting controls . Thus a comprehensive evaluation of the shelterbelt effect on crop yield at landscape scale is highly required . This study presents a rare insight into the optimum balance between minimizing the quantity of shelterbelts and maximizing the yield of crops based on the combination of a light use efficiency model and landscape indices from a landscape ecology perspective . Farmland has rapidly expanded by 43 in the Manas River Basin of Xinjiang Northwest China since 2000 . Overexploitation of land resources and limited water resources lead to serious land degradation . However development of shelterbelts was left behind in this area with an increase of 29.39 only during this period . The shelterbelts are not only quantitively insufficient but also irrational in spatial patterns . Cotton productivity was significantly correlated with the spatial patterns of shelterbelts . The optimum of shelterbelt to patch ratio for maximizing cotton yield was 3.5 in the study area . When the amount of shelterbelts is higher than 3.5 it is no longer associated with improved cotton yield . Simultaneously higher connectivity and ring values always corresponded to higher cotton yields . Hence in future practices we should first ensure a certain amount of shelterbelts while simultaneously optimizing the spatial configuration of shelterbelts to maximize their benefits . After the quantity of shelterbelts reached 3.5 however improving the quality increasing their connectivity and ring value becomes the only effective way to improve crop yield .

@highlight The optimum balance between minimizing the quantity of shelterbelts and maximizing the yield of crops was presented.
@highlight Cotton productivity was significantly correlated with the spatial patterns of shelterbelts.
@highlight The optimum of shelterbelt to patch ratio for maximizing cotton yield was 3.5 in the study area.
@highlight On spatial configuration of shelterbelts the higher the connectivity and ring values the better the cotton yield.
@highlight Optimizing the spatial configuration with no additional land and water uses is an effective way to improve cotton yield.
