 The cover management factor in the revised universal soil loss equation indicates the effects of vegetation cover and management practices on water erosion . The conditions governing the C factor can be managed by farmers and managers to affect soil loss and soil carbon cycle . Currently the most common approach for estimating the C factor on large scales is using the normalized difference vegetation index individually which can not precisely characterize the differences in the C factor in various land use types with the same degree of vegetation coverage . We developed a multiple land use synthesized C factor model to capture the dynamics of the C factor with a high spatio temporal resolution for mixed landscape watersheds . In this model space time fusion was executed based on multi source remotely sensed data to estimate the phenological succession of vegetation cover and the impacts of farmland management on large scale evaluation of the C factor were considered . A case study was conducted in the Gongshui watershed southern China where the dataset of precipitation and sediment yield covered a period of 11 years . We validated the simulation from the MLUS C model and compared it with the results from NDVI only approaches via conversion from the C factor to sediment yield . The validation results showed that the MLUS C model significantly improved the simulation accuracy and model adaptability . The root mean square error of our model was 71.5 95.5 lower than those of NDVI only approaches . Our model has an advantage in estimating the C factor in heterogeneous landscapes and provides a basis for implementing measurements to efficiently reduce soil loss .

@highlight The C factor with a high spatio temporal resolution in mixed landscapes is modeled.
@highlight The highest C factors in a year in the Gongshui watershed occur from April to June.
@highlight The C factors show seasonality and co vary with the distribution of precipitation.
@highlight The RMSE of our model is 71.5 95.5 lower than those of NDVI only approaches.
