 Various plant successional gradients on the Qinghai Tibetan Plateau are created by overgrazing of rangelands and by abandonment of cultivated land . A key point for restoration of these grasslands is the germinability of seeds that are sown in the field . Thus information on how germination strategies change during succession will be helpful in restoring the grasslands in different successional stages . We sampled subalpine meadows abandoned from agriculture for 1 5 and 15years and an undisturbed meadow . Seed germination of species of communities in different successional stages and the climax were tested in the laboratory under different conditions . Change in germination strategy from the pioneer stage to climax was analyzed at the community level . Our results indicated that 1 at the community level germination of species in the pioneer stage of succession is significantly different with that of those in the later SS 2 species in the pioneer SS germinated better at 10 25 than those in the later stages and in the climax 3 the optimal temperature range for germination for the 1 year old and climax communities is wider than that of the 5 and 15 year old communities 4 germination of species in the 5 and 15 year old communities had a significant positive response to alternating temperature and wet cold storage but the 1 year old and climax communities did not 5 the SS has different effects on the diversity index for a single germination trait depending on the kind of trait however the diversity for the suite of seed germination traits tends to decrease with progression of succession 6 both species richness and phylogenetic diversity increase with progression of succession . Thus the seed germination strategy changed with the progression of succession and it was correlated with changes in vegetation density and height along the successional gradient . This research can give us some guidelines for grassland restoration by adding seeds .

@highlight During subalpine grassland succession species differ in their germination responses.
@highlight Species in the pioneer stage of succession can germinate at low temperatures.
@highlight Germination trait diversity is very high in the pioneer stage of succession.
@highlight For dormancy break in the middle stage of succession species need wet cold storage.
@highlight For germination in the middle stage of succession species need temperature alternation.
