 Converting forest to cropland generally results in the deterioration of soil structure and the loss of soil organic carbon and nutrients while agricultural soil erosion accelerates such degradation . To understand how soil structure OC and nutrients respond to the conversion of forest to cropland and agricultural erosion we compared soils between forest and cropland that was established in forest 60 years ago and among croplands suffering various intensities of erosion . Soil samples were collected from 070cm depth for the measurement of bulk density OC nitrogen and phosphorous . The soil structural stability index was calculated . We showed that the conversion of forest to cropland decreased the soil structural stability and the concentrations and stocks of OC and N in the top 30cm soils but had no effects on P. Soil erosion significantly increased soil bulk density but decreased soil structural stability and the concentrations and stocks of OC N and P along the 070cm soil profile . Additionally most of the effects of erosion were enhanced with the intensity of erosion . However OC N and P were significantly higher at the deposition sites than at the either non erosion or eroding sites in 1570cm soils probably due to the burial of OC N and P in deep soils of deposition sites . Moreover the effects of converting forest to cropland on OC and N were greater than the effects of light erosion but smaller than the effects of moderate and heavy erosion in the top 30cm soils . Therefore erosion intensity should be carefully considered when disentangling the effects of converting natural ecosystem to managed ecosystem and soil erosion .

@highlight Soil erosion significantly decreased soil structural stability and OC N and P.
@highlight Most of the effects of erosion were enhanced with the intensity of erosion.
@highlight Effects of the conversion of forest to cropland on OC and N were greater than effects of light erosion.
@highlight Effects of the conversion of forest to cropland were smaller than effects of moderate and heavy erosion.
@highlight Deposition increased soil OC N and P due to burial.
