 Landscape and biophysical determinants of insectivorous bat activity and community composition in space and time are central to understanding how growers can maximise bat mediated pest control services in crops . We measured community composition abundance richness and foraging attempts of insectivorous bats in the centre of dryland cotton crops using acoustic sampling . We examined how bat activity was related to woody vegetation in the surrounding landscape prey insect abundance distance to crop edge size of field proximity to waterbodies and moon illumination to better understand insectivorous bat diversity and foraging in crop interiors . We collected a total of 9467 acoustic files including 1198 foraging attempts of at least 21 insectivorous bat species . The bat assemblage in cotton crop interiors was positively related to woody vegetation foliage cover within 510km of the crop as well as Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera abundance but was negatively related to distance from the field edge into the crop and moon illumination . Increased feeding attempts were linked to increased Lepidoptera and Hemiptera on nights of high moon illumination . Bat activity and foraging was also higher during nights of increased insect abundance particularly Lepidoptera indicating that bats track food resources . Our results highlight the importance of managing bat roosting habitat at different landscape scales to enhance bat diversity and foraging in crop interiors and thus insect consumption . Given the high bat feeding activity on nights of high moon illumination and increased Hemiptera abundance the timing of insecticide sprays to target pests such as Hemipteran sucking bugs could be scheduled on nights of low moon illumination . Such information is useful in identifying conservation priorities for the management of bats in intensively farmed agroecosystems and should facilitate habitat management by growers to maximise crop pest protection services in crop interiors .

@highlight Bats foraging in crop interiors was positively related to bugs moths and woody vegetation within 5km of the crop.
@highlight Bat feeding buzzes increased with Hemiptera abundance on moonlit nights of 75 illumination.
@highlight Bat foraging was three times greater in mature cotton crop interiors than young cotton.
@highlight Increased cotton foliage height and density was associated with bat diversity in crop interiors.
