 Wine production is intricately dependant on the evolution of weather conditions in a given year . Therefore seasonal weather forecasts coupled with empirical wine production models can play a critical role in the short to medium term management of vineyards and wineries . The implementation of suitable and timely adaptation measures based on predicted wine productions may contribute to risk reduction and improve efficiency . The performance of seasonal forecasts of wine production in the Portuguese Douro Port wine region is here assessed for the first time . This application may serve as a case study to be potentially extended to other wine regions . Here we develop a predictive logistic model of wine production based on monthly mean air temperatures and monthly total precipitation averaged over the periods of FebruaryMarch MayJune and JulySeptember complemented with an autoregressive component of wine productions . The wine production in the D P WR during the period 19502017 is keyed into three classes low normal and high production years . The model reveals a correct estimation ratio of approximately 3 4 for the full period and 2 3 when applied to independent 10 random subsamples . We then evaluate the performance of the ECMWF 7 month seasonal weather forecasts issued from February to August in predicting the meteorological conditions relevant for the wine production in the D P WR . Overall the performance is satisfactory for the meteorological predictors . As for the weather forecasts coupled with the wine production model results reveal that forecasts from May to August are strikingly the best performing as 1 more observed data is integrated into the empirical model and 2 the skill of seasonal forecasts for summer months is higher . The operational application of these forecasts in the D P WR is already foreseen . Given the encouraging results we believe this case study and the established methodology may be tested and adapted to other wine regions worldwide with obvious benefits for the winemaking sector .

@highlight A new wine production model is developed for the Port wine region Portugal.
@highlight A correct estimation ratio 2 3 is obtained by the empirical predictive model.
@highlight ECMWF seasonal weather forecasts are used to produce monthly outlooks.
@highlight Seasonal predictions of wine production from May to August are the best performing.
@highlight The performance is satisfactory and can be applied to other wine regions.
