 Pressure to increase food production to meet the demands of a growing human population can make conservation motivated recommendations to limit agricultural expansion impractical . Therefore we need to identify conservation actions that can support biodiversity without taking land out of production . Previous studies suggest this can be accomplished by increasing farmland heterogeneityi.e . heterogeneity of the cropped portions of agricultural landscapesby for example decreasing field sizes . However it is not yet clear whether policies guidelines that promote farmland heterogeneity will be as effective as those targeting farming practices . Here we estimated the relative effects of six practicesannual perennial crop fertilizer use herbicide use insecticide use tile drainage and tillageversus two aspects of farmland heterogeneityfield size and crop diversityon the diversity of herbaceous plants woody plants butterflies syrphid flies bees carabid beetles spiders and birds in rural eastern Ontario Canada . The strength of effect of farming practices and farmland heterogeneity varied among taxonomic groups . Nevertheless we found important effects of both farming practices and farmland heterogeneity on the combined diversity across these groups . In particular we found greater multidiversity in untilled perennial crop fields than tilled annual crop fields and greater multidiversity in agricultural landscapes with smaller crop fields and less diverse crops . The directions of effect of these variables were generally consistent across individual taxonomic groups . For example richness was lower in landscapes with larger fields and more diverse crops than in landscapes with smaller fields and less diverse crops for all taxa except spiders . The negative effect of crop diversity on multidiversity and the richness of most of the studied taxa indicates that this aspect of farmland heterogeneity does not necessarily benefit wildlife species . Nevertheless a compelling implication of this study is that it suggests that policies guidelines aimed at reducing crop field sizes would be at least as effective for conservation of biodiversity within working agricultural landscapes as those designed to promote a wildlife friendly farming practice .

@highlight Both farming practices and farmland heterogeneity affect biodiversity in crop fields.
@highlight More wildlife species were in untilled perennial fields than tilled annual ones.
@highlight More species were in fields surrounded by smaller fields and fewer crop types.
@highlight Field size was more important for biodiversity than tillage pesticide use tiling.
@highlight Reducing field sizes could be an effective conservation action in agricultural areas.
