 Tree architecture defined as the three dimensional arrangement of tree above ground elements directly influences the biological and physical processes of vegetation such as photosynthesis and evapotranspiration . Accurate description of tree architecture is of central importance to understand the above biophysical processes . Terrestrial laser scanning has been proved to be a promising tool to quantitatively describe tree architecture parameters . However previous studies using TLS usually focused on architectural parameter measurements at individual tree crown scale and leaf scales . Very few studies have achieved a comprehensive quantitative description of branch architecture . In this study we improved the Laplacian Based Contraction skeletonization algorithm using the Dijkstra algorithm developed a new path discrimination method to identify and encode branch orders and retrieved branch architecture parameters based on branch order and topology information . To assess the influence of branching complexity and branching pattern on the estimation accuracy we scanned 15 different sized magnolia trees without a leading stem and simulated 10 different sized trees with a leading stem . Results showed the overall branch order identification and parameters retrieval accuracy of trees with a leading stem was obviously higher than trees without a leading stem . The identification accuracy of branch order decreased with the increase in the number of branch and tree branching complexity . The estimated branch architecture parameters agreed well with ground truth measurements

@highlight Developed a method to retrieve tree architecture parameters from lidar.
@highlight Proposed an improved Laplacian Based Contraction algorithm to extract tree skeleton.
@highlight Developed a new path discrimination algorithm to identify and encode branch orders.
@highlight TLS data can be used to estimate branch architecture parameters accurately.
@highlight Branching pattern and complexity are two factors affecting parameter estimations.
