 Surface atmosphere fluxes are known to vary at multiple time scales but uncertainty is high as to how fluxes change spatially within regions . With an increase in the number of eddy covariance towers we are now able to examine the geospatial coherence of ecosystem fluxes using time series correlation . Eighteen sites from Michigan and Wisconsin were used in this study ranging from 100 m to 600 km apart . Surface atmosphere fluxes from a six month period were used to quantify spatial coherence on a pair wise basis . Using geospatial statistics carbon and sensible heat fluxes were found to be 95 correlated directly outside of their flux footprint and 56 correlated up to a distance of 35 km . Latent and momentum fluxes were less correlated 83 directly outside of their flux footprint and 40 at a distance of 130 km albeit at a much larger spatial distance than for the carbon and sensible heat fluxes . All fluxes showed strong spectral resonance at diel and seasonal timescales with 1 2 and 3 month periods being common modes of variability among H LE and fluxes . Results based on Empirical Orthogonal Function show distinct transitions of net ecosystem exchange from fall to winter before photosynthesis or respiration while H and do not exhibit coherent trends . This work demonstrates the potential of quantifying geospatial coherence of surface atmosphere fluxes in the Midwestern United States with the ability to predict fluxes beyond the spatial limit of a single flux tower footprint . Ultimately expanding the flux measurements to larger scales would allow better spatial scaling of terrestrial surface atmosphere fluxes between tower footprint and modeling or remote sensing scales .

@highlight Geospatial flux coherence is quantified using two clusters of 18 eddy covariance sites.
@highlight Flux sites show 95 coherence directly adjacent to the footprint edge.
@highlight Coherence drops to 56 at a distance of 35 km.
@highlight Spectral analysis shows all fluxes exhibit strong diel and seasonal signals.
@highlight H LE and show strong weekly to monthly components as well.
