 Shifting temperature patterns on global and regional scales accredited to climate change will bring more low temperature stress and high temperature stress events to further deteriorate wheat yield and quality . Crop models can serve as a beneficial platform for quantifying the impact of both high and low temperature events on grain yield and grain quality . Wheat grain protein concentration and grain protein yield as two important measurements of wheat quality for nutrition value is often ignored in crop modeling efforts to improve grain yield under climate change . This study was undertaken for comprehensive comparison of four broadly used wheat simulation models in quantifying and simulating the responses of wheat grain quality under LTS and HTS at critical growth stages and to identify gaps in simulating wheat grain protein concentration and protein yield for crop model improvement . Four year environment controlled phytotron experiments were conducted with two wheat varieties under LTS and HTS . For per unit increase in cold degree days at jointing and booting stages and heat degree days at anthesis grain filling and combined stress at anthesis and grain filling stages GPC was increased by 0.2 to 0.4 and 1.1 to 1.6 while GPY was decreased by 2.1 to 4.5 and 0.3 to 1.7 respectively . Most of the crop models tended to reproduce some HTS impacts better during grain filling than at anthesis but all the tested models call for improvements in simulating LTS at different stages especially for GPY . Our results indicated the need of incorporating response functions of extreme temperature stresses into grain quality models to adapt to future climate scenarios .

@highlight Extreme temperature stress caused an increase in GPC and a decrease in GY and GPY.
@highlight GPC GY and GPY were more sensitive to LTS at booting and to HTS at anthesis.
@highlight Four wheat models failed to simulate the impacts of LTS but simulated some responses under HTS.
@highlight Improvements needed in grain quality modules to adapt to future climate scenarios.
