 While sustained warmer temperatures accelerate crop phenology short exposures to supra optimal temperatures can stress wheat crops with drastic impact on grain yield and quality . Crop models are useful to evaluate crop response to heat at various spatial temporal scales . A modified version of the Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator was used to investigate wheat response to increased average temperature and heat shocks for three cultivars of contrasting maturity sown from April to July across the Australian wheatbelt over 19852017 . Increasing average temperatures have resulted in shortening the crop cycle by 1.6 days per decade since 1985 for standard management practices . While the occurrence of warm nights has not significantly changed in most tested conditions daytime heat shocks occur significantly more often across the wheatbelt with an extra 0.6 and 1.2 hot days per decade occurring around anthesis and during early mid grain filling respectively . This warming has resulted in losses in grain number and individual grain weight rising by 1.0 and 4.0 per decade nationally with an overall yield loss of 4.6 per decade . Heat events were found to have a greater effect on individual grain weight than grain number in Australia . Nationally for Janz sown on 15 May heat shocks have caused on average a 3.6 loss in grain number and an 18.1 loss in individual grain weight resulting in a 20.8 yield loss . Considering the impact of other abiotic stresses like drought simulated yield of Janz sown on 15 May has decreased by 242kg ha

@highlight Increasing mean temperatures have largely reduced the wheat crop cycle since 1985.
@highlight In the Australian wheatbelt post anthesis heat shocks greatly affect grain yield.
@highlight 20.8 of grain yield is lost due to heat events for standard agronomic practices .
@highlight Heat shocks have reduced yield by 4.6 decade
@highlight since 1985 for standard practices .
@highlight Yield for standard management practices has decreased by 242kg decade
@highlight since 1985.
