 Frost events pose a threat to normal development of winter wheat and increase risk of production loss even given the context of global warming . On the Huang Huai Hai Plain which is the largest region of winter wheat cultivation in China frost damage has become one of the major meteorological catastrophes . In recent years both frequency of occurrence and severity of frost events in this region have exhibited an upward trend . For timely and accurate monitoring of single event frost damage of winter wheat this study developed a frost monitoring framework that considers the processes of the evolution of a frost event and the response of winter wheat as well as the lag between them . The framework adopts a NDVI valley area index to represent the gradual response process of winter wheat to frost . In this framework the normalized NVAI is used to indicate the degree of damage and a two phased damage assessment is adopted to resolve the contradiction between the urgency of obtaining information on frost severity the spatial distribution of frost damage and the delayed response process of winter wheat to frost . Using prediction models based on historical statistics assessment at the T1 stage estimates the possible damage after the end of the frost and assessment at the T2 stage evaluates the actual damage caused by frost when the winter wheat has recovered . Application of the proposed framework to a frost event that occurred on the HHHP during March 49 2018 revealed that the average absolute percentage error between actual and predicted damage across the entire region was 33 . Moreover the prediction of damage was made 13 days ahead of the occurrence of actual damage . Thus the framework could provide guidance to enable action to be taken to reduce the impact of frost . The proposed monitoring framework fully considers the processes of the evolution of a frost event and the response of winter wheat to frost and it learns potential patterns from historical frost events to provide early prediction of potential frost damage . Consequently the framework is considered suitable for wide practical application .

@highlight NNVAI is proposed to indicate winter wheat damage caused by a single frost event.
@highlight Growth stage specific relations between NNVAI and frost features were explored.
@highlight Winter wheat is sensitive to different features of frost at different growth stages.
@highlight Developed monitoring framework to do two phase assessment of winter wheat damage.
