 Lightning is the most important natural wildfire ignition source worldwide . However identifying the specific lightning causing a forest fire is a challenging task . The goal of this study is to understand how different methodological approaches affect the association between igniting lightning and natural fires . To this purpose we combined data on 267 lightning caused forest fires from Switzerland with data on cloud to ground lightning strokes for the period 20002018 . We searched for the most probable igniting lightning among all lightning that occur during the days before fire detection in the vicinity of the ignition point . We tested the suitability of 14 methods that combine different spatio temporal approaches and selection criteria . Our results show that each method selected different candidate lightning for a subset of the fires while for other fires identical candidate lightning were selected by different methods . Methods using criteria that combine simultaneously space and time such as the index A selected candidate lightning with short distances from the ignition points and short holdover times . On the contrary methods that minimize the holdover time selected a great proportion of candidate lightning located at long distances . The majority of the candidate lighting were recorded within 1km from the fire starting point and in less than 24h before fire detection . The proportion of positive strokes was significantly higher among candidate lightning than in the rest of lightning which supports the hypothesis that positive lightning are more likely to ignite a forest fire than negative ones . This study highlights the importance of the methodological choice when searching for the candidate igniting lightning of a wildfire .

@highlight An approach to find igniting strokes based on the confidence ellipse is described.
@highlight Holdover fires are relatively common in the Alps.
@highlight Positive lightning ignite forest fires more frequently than expected by chance.
@highlight The methodological choice is important for matching igniting lightning and fires.
