 The U.S. Corn Belt the world s biggest production region for corn and soybean combined is prone to droughts . Currently 92 of the U.S. Corn Belt croplands are rainfed and thus are sensitive to interannual climate variability and future climate change . Most prior studies identify the lack of soil moisture as the primary cause of agricultural drought impacts although water related stresses are also induced by high atmospheric water demands . Here we empirically attributed the variability of canopy level stomatal conductance and gross primary productivity to VPD and soil water supply using eddy covariance data from seven AmeriFlux eddy covariance sites in maize and soybean fields across the U.S. Corn Belt which are well represented for the current rainfed part of the Corn Belt croplands . We used three independent approaches including two statistical models and information theory to quantify the relationship of Gs with VPD and SWC . The attribution result from the two models shows that VPD explains most of Gs variability and mutual information also attributed 91 of GPP variability to VPD . This finding was robust over the gradients of rainfall and temperature crop types and management practices . We reconciled our finding with the previously emphasized importance of precipitation and SWC by conducting a path analysis which revealed the causal relationships between precipitation air temperature relative humidity VPD SWC and Gs . We find that precipitation impacts on Gs through reduced RH and Ta to VPD . With increased VPD robustly projected under climate change we expect increased crop water stress in the future for the U.S. Corn Belt .

@highlight We attributed the canopy conductance variability to VPD and soil moisture.
@highlight We obtained the canopy conductance using Ameriflux sites data in the U.S. Corn Belt.
@highlight High VPD dominantly controlled the canopy conductance variability.
@highlight Precipitation affects plant water stress more through the atmosphere than soil.
