 Nitrous oxide is the most important greenhouse gas produced by agricultural soils and is a byproduct of microbial nitrification and denitrification processes . The N2O emission rates depend on soil climatic and management factors . The objectives of this study were i to evaluate N2O emissions during a barley crop period and its subsequent barley maize interperiod under two management systems and ii to relate the N2O flux rates with soil mineral N content waterfilled pore space and soil temperature . These periods are part of three year crop sequence of a long term experiment under two management systems ecological intensification and farmer current practices . For the analyzed period the EI system included a cover crop after barley and higher N rates with split application compared to FP . N2O emissions were monitored weekly using a static chambers method . Simultaneously the mineral N content WFPS and soil temperature at 10cm depth were determined . The flux of N2O N ranged from 6 to 61g of N2O N m2 h 1 during the barley crop and between 1.5 and 47g of N2O N m2 h 1 during the barley maize interperiod without significant differences between management systems . N2O emissions were controlled by soil temperature and WFPS according to a multiple regression analysis . NH4 N and NO3 N soil content did not enter into any model as a regulator of N2O flux . During the barley period there was a significant effect of the WFPSsoil temperature interaction since N2O emissions increased with soil temperature only at WFPS 40 . During the barley maize interperiod there were significant positive effects of WFPS and temperature on N2O emissions with no significant WFPS x temperature interaction . The cumulative emissions of N2O N were not different between management systems during the barley crop or during barley maize interperiod . Throughout the study period the combination of management practices in EI increased barley yield and did not increase N2O emissions with respect to FP despite higher N rates and the inclusion of cover crop in EI . The intensification of crops does not necessarily increase N2O emissions from agricultural soils as long as the crops are conducted with appropriate management practices .

@highlight Nitrous oxide emissions during a barley crop and its subsequent intercrop period.
@highlight With proper agronomic practices grain productivity can be increased and a cover crop can be included without increasing N
@highlight O emissions.
@highlight Cumulative N2O emissions during the study period were similar under current farmer practices and an ecologically intensified cropping system.
