 With a growing human population facing multiple global change drivers the future of food security is of major importance . Sustainable agriculture is therefore key to ensure food supply and food security under future climatic conditions . Forage provision is an important ecosystem service of grasslands for dairy production . However monitoring forage quality in semi natural species rich grasslands is rarely done due to the inherent complexity in determining forage quality high variability within natural systems and financial and workload restrictions . Here we i demonstrate the ability of visible near infrared spectroscopy to predict forage quality of bulk samples of species rich montane pastures and ii show its potential to reveal effects of two key global change drivers climate change and land management on forage quality . Spectral information and chemometrics allowed us to predict three out of four analyzed forage quality parameters with high accuracy . Land management intensity strongly influenced species rich grasslands protein and fat content whereas altered climatic conditions influenced ash and fat content . High management intensity increased protein content of high and mid elevation pastures by 22 and 30 and fat content by 19 and 20 respectively . Though forage quality was improved by intensive land management extensive land management generally revealed sufficient forage quality for livestock . Vis NIRS provides a rapid cost efficient and high throughput technique to analyze forage quality revealing effects of global change drivers on forage quality of grasslands . This approach will help to support stakeholders assure optimal nutrition feeding of livestock and achieve steps towards sustainable agriculture .

@highlight vis NIRS can predict three focal properties of forage quality ash fat and protein.
@highlight Land management directly influences fat and protein content.
@highlight Climate change alters ash and fat content.
@highlight Rapid high throughput methodology can support sustainable agriculture.
