 A reduction and disappearance of traditional agricultural landscape structures has been taking place throughout Europe . TALSs are a mixture of small arable fields with trees vineyards with and without trees orchards and field margins and represent an important component of green infrastructure . This is true especially in intensively used landscapes where GI elements in a true sense are quite rare . Changes of GI and its connectivity in four periods between 1826 and 2017 were studied in the agricultural landscape of South Moravian region the Czech Republic . Changes of GI were expressed as transitions to different land use categories with changes of GI connectivity expressed by morphological spatial pattern analysis and equivalent connected area . Our results showed that the GI was the best connected in the mid 19th century through large core areas of grasslands forests and water bodies . GI was significantly reduced and its connectivity lowered already in the first half of the 20th century during the first wave of agricultural intensification . During this time grassland was turned to arable fields and water bodies and wetlands were dried out . The reduction of GI continued during the socialist period leading to further decreases in connectivity and an overall homogenization of the landscape . During this period and continuing until the present TALSs and especially small vineyards started to play a significant role in GI connectivity . Nowadays GI connectivity has started to again increase also through the introduction of new types of GI . These are bio centres and bio corridors and elements connected with agri environmental schemes .

@highlight Traditional agricultural landscape structures TALS are part of green infrastructure GI .
@highlight GI was removed by plowing large grasslands during the early 20th century.
@highlight Further removal of small GI elements occurred during the second half of 20th century.
@highlight TALSs play key roles in GI connectivity as cores and offer economic gain.
@highlight Present GI connectivity increased due to new GI elements and some TALS types.
