 Manure lagoons in dairies make significant contributions to emissions of methane a major greenhouse gas however there is a high level of uncertainty in these emissions . In this paper we apply dispersion models in combination with a unique sampling strategy which involves stationary measurements at multiple points around the lagoons to estimate methane emissions from manure lagoons located in two dairies one in Southern California and the other in Central California . We then estimate the uncertainty associated with the results from this approach by interpreting our measurements with two dispersion models a numerical Eulerian model and a backward Lagrangian stochastic model . The range of emissions inferred from these two models is a measure of uncertainty related to differences in the formulation of these models . We also estimate 95 confidence intervals for the emission estimates from each of the models by bootstrapping the residuals between model estimates and measurements . Both models explain more than 85 of the variance of the methane concentrations measured at the two dairies . For the Southern California dairy the 95 confidence interval of the emission rate inferred by the EN model is 282kg d to 482kg d. The corresponding interval for the bLS model is 174kg d to 246kg d. The best fit value from the EN model is about 1.9 times that from the bLS model . For the Central California dairy the best emission rates from the two models differ by about 10 . The emission rate inferred by the EN model ranges from 3198kg d to 5312kg d and that from the bLS ranges from 2943kg d to 4977kg d. Our results are consistent with methane emissions derived from information on dairy cow population and manure management practices at these two dairies . These results suggest this measurement technique is easily deployed and effective at quantifying uncertainties associated with methane emissions from manure lagoons .

@highlight Sampling and dispersion modeling method proposed to determine methane emissions.
@highlight Method determines uncertainty in emission estimates based on dispersion models.
@highlight Estimated methane emissions from manure lagoons at two dairies in California.
@highlight Two dispersion models yield emission estimates that can differ by factor of two.
@highlight Emission estimates from model can vary between 0.8 to 1.4 times the best fit value.
