 Agriculture is a major factor in landscape fragmentation altering nutrient cycling and animal and plant populations through increasing habitat edge density . Most research on insect herbivores in agroecosystems has focused on the top down effects of predators moving throughout the habitat mosaic . Few studies have focused on the top down and bottom up factors modulating the distribution of insect herbivore populations between natural and agricultural patches . For example despite an understanding that Australian plague locusts avoid tree patches the underlying mechanisms remain unknown . Here we explored how wooded remnants within pastures affect locust density and the potential top down and bottom up mechanistic explanations . We tested three hypotheses 1 grasses near wooded areas are nutritionally suboptimal 2 predator density is higher near wooded areas and 3 temperatures are cooler underneath trees . We measured locust density grass nutrient content predator abundance temperature and ground cover along 50 m transects from wooded areas to open grassy areas . We ran those transects in three fields and had four transects per field . We confirmed locust avoidance for trees at a 20 m periphery however none of the variables tested independently explained this trend . Grass nutrient content was similar underneath wooded areas and in open patches . Predator abundance did not differ between the two habitats . The ground was warmer under wooded areas than in grassy areas potentially due to woody vegetation negating windchill . Further we found that locust density was negatively correlated with plant protein content and was highest in areas with approximately 20 bare ground cover . Both plant protein and ground cover are important for grasshopper performance and reproduction . It is likely a complex interaction between these variables and others that drive the distribution of this species and other insect herbivores in agroecosystems . The small scale mechanisms driving the response of insect herbivores to landscape changes is critical to understanding and predicting population dynamics at large scales .

@highlight What regulates insect herbivore populations in agroecosystems remain understudied.
@highlight A common insect avoids woody vegetation remnants by at least 20 m.
@highlight No measured top down or bottom up control explained the woody vegetation aversion.
@highlight Insect density is correlated with 20 bareground cover and low grass protein content.
