 Continuously increasing evapotranspiration and seasonal water demands of crops due to rise in temperature are adversely affecting the agricultural activities around the world . In this study projected crop water requirement for Rabi and Kharif seasons have been analyzed over an agro climatically diversified region of Pakistan in South Asia for 21st century . The output dataset from the Coordinated Regional Climate Downscaling Experiment for South Asia under two emission scenarios have been used for three future time slices i.e . near future mid future and far future respectively . Results indicate that future CWR is very high over southern parts of Pakistan and continuously increasing over the entire region whereas significant CWR increase was observed for the months of August to November over northern and southern parts during the near future . The highest significant increase in CWR rate was recorded in August and September over the both parts of Pakistan during near and mid future under RCP4.5 at 95 confidence level . Similarly highest significant increase in CWR rate was also observed in August and March over both parts of the country during mid future under RCP8.5 . The projected seasonal CWR indicated significant increase under RCP4.5 for Kharif and Rabi seasons over the entire country during near future whereas it increased by 0.97mm day for both seasons under RCP 8.5 over the whole country during mid future . Hence this study provides the useful information to water resource managers agriculturists agronomists farmers and policy makers in order to develop an efficient contingency plan for crop water stress and to set the foundation of climate smart agriculture towards sustainable development in agriculture and water sectors of the region .

@highlight Significant increase in projected CWR has been observed during 21st century.
@highlight CWR is significantly increased under both RCP4.5 and R8.5 over Pakistan.
@highlight For southern part CWR remains very high as compared to northern part of the country.
@highlight Rabi winter season has high crop water demand than the kharif summer season.
