 Given the impact of livestock on ecosystems worldwide it is necessary to understand the effects of grazing practices on biodiversity in order to improve the sustainability of pasture management practices . In a pasture spatio temporal variability in livestock activity results in a heterogeneous distribution of defoliation trampling and excreta . To date fine scale analyses of grazing intensity have been rare and the geographical extent of the studies often limited . In this study we addressed this gap by analysing the influence of contrasting intra pasture grazing intensity on the structure and composition of dung beetle assemblages . To do this we studied a three level grazing intensity gradient in two distinct bioclimatic contexts a Mediterranean steppe and the Alps which also allowed us to determine if dung beetle responses to grazing intensity are related to bioclimatic conditions . The observed dung beetle responses showed an imprint of the bioclimatic context and the local pasture conditions and species composition and relative abundance showed strong variations along the grazing intensity gradient in both study areas . Species assemblages from the most and least grazed parts of pastures differed strongly . By altering habitat conditions changing dung availability and modifying competitive interactions fine scale heterogeneity in grazing intensity led to substantial variations in the abundance of dung beetle nesting guilds . In both study areas an increase in grazing intensity was detrimental to the largest species and the soil digging species whereas dung dwelling species were favoured . We discuss the combined use of nesting guilds and body mass as potential features to generalize the application of dung beetles as indicators of grazing practices .

@highlight Response of dung beetles to grazing in a Mediterranean steppe and the Alps.
@highlight Grazing intensity affects the structure and composition of dung beetle assemblages.
@highlight Faunal contrasts were more pronounced in the Alps than in the steppe.
@highlight Overgrazing was detrimental to soil digging species but favoured dung dwellers.
@highlight Dung beetle nesting guilds can be used as indicators of grazing intensity effects.
