 Exposures to volatile organic compounds and metals have previously been associated with liver diseases including steatohepatitis although more data are needed . Benzene toluene ethylbenzene xylenes styrene and metals were measured in blood samples collected between May 2012July 2013 from volunteers participating in home visits for the Gulf Long term Follow up Study . This cross sectional analysis evaluates associations of exposure biomarkers with serum liver injury and adipocytokine biomarkers in a sample of 214 men . Adult nonsmoking men without a history of liver disease or heavy alcohol consumption were included . The serologic disease biomarkers evaluated were the hepatocellular injury biomarker cytokeratin 18 and caspase cleaved fragment and adipocytokines . Confounder adjusted beta coefficients were determined using linear regression models for the overall sample and for obesity classified sub groups . A product interaction term between the exposure of interest and a dichotomized indicator of obesity was included to determine the disease modifying effects of obesity on the biomarker associations . The study sample was 57 white and 51 obese . In the overall sample lead was positively associated with CK18 M30 p 0.0004 IL 1 IL 6 and IL 8 . Cadmium exposures were associated with increased IL 1 and IL 8 . There were multiple significant interactions between obesity and exposure to lead cadmium benzene and toluene in relation to outcome biomarkers . Among obese participants benzene lead and cadmium were each positively associated with CK18 M30 IL 1 IL 6 and IL 8 . In obese subjects lead was also inversely associated with leptin and toluene was positively associated with IL 1 . For the overall sample heavy metal exposures were associated with liver injury and or systemic inflammation . Obesity modified the associations between BTEXS and heavy metal exposures on several of the outcome variables . In the obesity subgroup liver injury was positively associated with lead cadmium and benzene exposures systemic inflammation was increased with lead cadmium benzene and toluene exposures and leptin was inversely associated with lead exposures . The cross sectional design of this study makes it difficult to determine causality and all results should be interpreted cautiously . Nonetheless the potential impact of exposures to lead cadmium benzene and toluene in steatohepatitis an obesity associated inflammatory liver disease warrants further investigation .

@highlight Heavy metal exposures were associated with liver apoptosis and systemic inflammation.
@highlight Obesity modified associations between BTEXS or metals with liver disease biomarkers.
@highlight Interactions between exposures and obesity may modify liver disease risk.
@highlight Metals VOCs may worsen NAFLD
@highlight cell death inflammation and endocrine disruption.
