 Liver fibrosis is a hepatic wound healing response caused by chronic liver diseases that include viral hepatitis alcoholic liver disease non alcoholic steatohepatitis and cholestatic liver disease . Liver fibrosis eventually progresses to cirrhosis that is histologically characterized by an abnormal liver architecture that includes distortion of liver parenchyma formation of regenerative nodules and a massive accumulation of extracellular matrix . Despite intensive investigations into the underlying mechanisms of liver fibrosis developments of anti fibrotic therapies for liver fibrosis are still unsatisfactory . Recent novel experimental approaches such as single cell RNA sequencing and proteomics have revealed the heterogeneity of ECM producing cells and ECM regulating cells . These approaches have accelerated the identification of fibrosis specific subpopulations among these cell types . The ECM also consists of heterogenous components . Their production degradation deposition and remodeling are dynamically regulated in liver fibrosis further affecting the functions of cells responsible for fibrosis . These cellular and ECM elements cooperatively form a unique microenvironment a fibrotic niche . Understanding the complex interplay between these elements could lead to a better understanding of underlying fibrosis mechanisms and to the development of effective therapies .

@highlight Despite significant unmet medical needs for liver fibrosis its molecular mechanisms are not fully understood.
@highlight Mesenchymal immune and endothelial cells cooperatively produce and degrade the extracellular matrix ECM .
@highlight The dynamic remodeling of ECM in turn regulates the immune and vascular systems and activates mesenchymal cells
@highlight The cellular and ECM components of the injured liver are heterogenous and contain fibrosis specific subpopulations.
@highlight Their interplay creates a unique fibrotic niche microenvironment a promising target for treating liver fibrosis.
