 Obesity and its related metabolic disorders as well as infectious diseases like covid 19 are important health risks nowadays . It was recently documented that long term fasting improves metabolic health and enhanced the total antioxidant capacity . The present study investigated the influence of a 10 day fasting on markers of the redox status in 109 subjects . Reducing power 2 2 Azino bis diammonium salt radical cation radical scavenging capacity and hydroxyl radical scavenging capacity increased significantly and indicated an increase of circulating antioxidant levels . No differences were detected in superoxide scavenging capacity protein carbonyls and superoxide dismutase when measured at baseline and after 10 days of fasting . These findings were concomitant to a decrease in blood glucose insulin glycated hemoglobin total cholesterol low density lipoprotein and triglycerides as well as an increase in total cholesterol high density lipoprotein ratio . In addition the well being index as well as the subjective energy levels increased documenting a good tolerability . There was an interplay between redox and metabolic parameters since lipid peroxidation baseline levels affected the ability of long term fasting to normalize lipid levels . A machine learning model showed that a combination of antioxidant parameters measured at baseline predicted the efficiency of the fasting regimen to decrease LDL levels.In conclusion it was demonstrated that long term fasting enhanced the endogenous production of antioxidant molecules that act protectively against free radicals and in parallel improved the metabolic health status . Our results suggest that the outcome of long term fasting strategies could be depending on the baseline values of the antioxidative and metabolic status of subjects .

@highlight Long term fasting increases the antioxidant capacity and decreases oxidative damage.
@highlight It improves the metabolic health status.
@highlight High TBARS levels at baseline limit the LDL reduction during long term fasting.
@highlight The antioxidant status is related with the lipid lowering effect of long term fasting.
