 Acacetin is a di hydroxy and mono methoxy flavone present in various plants including black locust Damiana Silver birch . Literature information revealed that acacetin exhibits an array of pharmacological potential including chemopreventive and cytotoxic properties in cancer cell lines prevents ischemia reperfusion myocardial infarction induced cardiac injury lipopolysaccharide 1 methyl 4 phenyl pyridinium ion and 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride induced neuroinflammation LPS and sepsis induced lung injury rheumatoid and collagen induced arthritis inhibit the microbial growth obesity viral mediated infections as well as hepatic protection . This review highlights the therapeutic potential of acacetin with updated and comprehensive information on the biological sources chemistry and pharmacological properties along with the possible mechanism of action safety aspects and future research opportunities . The information was retrieved from various search engines including Pubmed SciFinder Science direct Inxight drugs Google scholar and Meta cyc . The first section of this review focuses on the detailed biological source of acacetin chromatographic techniques used for isolation chemical characteristics the method for the synthesis of acacetin and the available natural and synthetic derivatives . Subsequently the pharmacological activities including anti cancer anti inflammatory anti viral anti microbial anti obesity have been discussed . The pharmacokinetics data and toxicity profile of acacetin are also discussed . Acacetin is a potent molecule reported for its strong anti inflammatory and anti cancer activity however further scientific evidence is essential to validate its potency in disease models associated with inflammation and cancer . There is limited information available for toxicity profiling of acacetin therefore further studies would aid in establishing this natural flavone as a potent candidate for research studies at clinical setup .

@highlight Acacetin exhibits an array of chemopreventive and cytotoxic properties.
@highlight Acacetin is a potent molecule reported for its strong anti inflammatory and anti cancer activity.
@highlight The mechanisms of acacetin action against metabolic disorders have been deduced.
@highlight The challenges associated with chemistry and pharmacology of acacetin has been discussed.
