 The aim of the present study was to clarify whether oxidative stress and inflammatory responses are related to impaired insulin signaling and fat accumulation induced by the dietary fatty acids and fructose . C57BL 6 type 8 week old male mice were fed with standard chow or three isocaloric diets consisting fructose monounsaturated fatty acids or saturated fatty acid for 15 weeks . After the dietary manipulation the mice were sacrificed tissues and blood were collected . Consequently body weight gains liver weights and plasma homeostasis model of assessment insulin resistance values in were at higher levels in SFA and fructose groups . The plasma concentrations of the non esterified fatty acids triglyceride and liver steatosis were found to be at higher levels in SFA and fructose groups . Moreover the expression levels of acetyl CoA carboxylase 1 insulin receptor substrate 1 AMP activated protein kinase and toll like receptor 4 in the liver were affected by the intake of SFA and fructose . Furthermore the plasma levels of C reactive protein and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 and the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in the liver were elevated in SFA and fructose group . The plasma level of anti inflammatory cytokine interleukin 10 was found to be lower in the SFA group compared to the other groups . In conclusion the inflammation and oxidation are related with the fatty acid and fructose induced impaired insulin signaling and fat accumulation in liver . Hence in order to decrease the oxidative stress and pro inflammatory response it is substantial to reduce the saturated fat and added sugar or to replace with the unsaturated fat and complex carbohydrates in diet .

@highlight Lipid peroxidation increased after high saturated fatty acids or fructose intake.
@highlight Dietary high saturated fatty acids or fructose prompted inflammation via TLR4 and cytokines.
@highlight High saturated fatty acids or fructose intake induce fatty acid biosynthesis and liver steatosis.
@highlight Insulin signaling impaired by high saturated fatty acids or fructose in diet.
