 The presence of acrylamide in food results in evident cognitive decline accumulation of misfolded proteins neurotoxicity neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis leading to progressive neurodegeneration . Here we used 4 dpf zebrafish larvae exposed to ACR as our model and neuronal proteins were analyzed . Next we tested the effect of garcinol a natural histone acetylation inhibitor whose neuroprotection mechanism of action remains to be fully elucidated . Our result revealed that ACR exposure significantly impaired cognitive behavior downregulated oxidative repair machinery and enhanced microglia induced neuronal apoptosis . Moreover ACR mediated cathepsin B translocation acted as the intracellular secretase for the processing of amyloid precursor protein and served as an additional risk factor for tau hyper phosphorylation . Here GAR suppresses ACR mediated CATB translocation as similar with standard inhibitor CA 074 . And this pharmacological repression helped in inhibiting amyloidogenic APP processing and downstream tau hyper phosphorylation . GAR neuroprotection was accompanied by CREB ATF1 and BDNF activation promoting neuronal survival . At the same time GAR subdued cdk5 and GSK3 the link between APP processing and tau hyper phosphorylation . Taken together our findings indicate that GAR rescued from ACR mediated behavioral defects oxidative injury neuroinflammation undesirable APP processing tau hyper phosphorylation which in turn found to be CATB dependent .

@highlight GAR repaired ACR induced cognitive behavior impairments and defects in neurocranium of zebrafish larvae.
@highlight ACR induced oxidative injury resulted in translocation of CATB in the cytosol and corresponding mitochondrial damage.
@highlight GAR inhibited ACR induced CATB mediated irregular processing of APP and downstream phosphorylation of tau.
@highlight GAR attenuated CATB mediated glial activation and ensured redox balance by stimulation of CREB and BDNF.
@highlight GAR act as a compelling neuroprotection agent against ACR neurotoxicity by repressing CATB secretase activity.
