 2 3 7 8 Tetrachlorobenzo p dioxin one of the key endocrine disruptors has been shown to cause reproductive and developmental disorders . Our previous studies have primarily focused on TCDD induced impairment of ovarian follicular development in female F1 rats . It is unknown whether TCDD exposure will interfere with follicular development by altering mRNA expression of anti Mllerian hormone and AMH receptor type II in the ovary . In the present study pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were treated with TCDD dissolved in a corn oil vehicle by gavage from gavage from gestational days 814 while the control group received solely corn oil . The F1 rats were mated with unexposed males for the F2 generation while another portion of the female offspring were mated for the F3 generation . Serum AMH levels and ovarian AMH AMHR2 mRNA expression in the adult female offspring were measured . Follicle count and granulosa cell apoptosis were evaluated in the F2 and F3 generations . The results showed that in the F2 generation TCDD exposure affected the number of primordial follicles secondary follicles and corpora lutea . It also increased serum AMH concentration and the apoptosis rate of granulosa cells . These results might be associated with the upregulation of AMH AMHR2 mRNA expression in the ovary . In conclusion TCDD exposure reduced the ovarian reserve in rats and inhibited follicular development in adult female offspring an effect that persisted for multiple generations . The altered AMH and AMHR2 mRNA expression may contribute to the observed adverse effects .

@highlight TCDD exposure can induce ovarian dysfunction in multigenerational adult female rats.
@highlight TCDD exposure can increase serum AMH levels and abnormal follicle counts in multi generation adulthood rats.
@highlight TCDD exposure can increase the apoptosis of ovarian granular cells in adulthood female rats.
@highlight TCDD can inhibit the ovarian follicle development via disturbing the expression of AMH AMHR2 mRNA in ovary.
