 The amyloid generation or aggregation plays a crucial role in Alzheimer s disease . Autophagy agonists which function as the clearance of A could be the potential drug candidates against AD . In staple food crops ferulic acid is an enormously copious and almost ubiquitous phenolic antioxidant . In the present study FA significantly inhibited A induced pathological symptoms of paralysis and hypersensitivity to exogenous serotonin meanwhile restrained A monomers oligomers and deposits in AD C. elegans . FA increased the expression of autophagy reporter LGG 1 and enhanced autophagy flux . However the autophagy inhibitors abolished the restrictive action of FA on the worm paralysis phenotype . According to these results FA triggered autophagy and ameliorated A induced pathological symptoms by the autophagy pathway . Moreover FA activated the HLH 30 transcription factor to nuclear localization which acts upstream of autophagy in fasted animals reduced the level of lipids but affected nor the growth of E. coli OP50 neither animal food intake behavior . These suggest that FA induced a fasting like effect to activate the autophagy pathway . Additionally FA ameliorated poly Q aggregations in Huntington s disease worm . Thus FA could not only affect AD broadly but also neurodegenerative diseases characterized by misfolded or aggregated proteins .

@highlight Ferulic acid effectively repectively delayed AD like symptoms of paralysis and hypersensitivity to exogenous 5 HT in worms.
@highlight Ferulic acid reduced A deposits and lowered the level of A oligomers and monomers.
@highlight Ferulic acid exerted anti AD action by inducing autophay.
@highlight Ferulic acid activated HLH 30 transcription factor to nuclear localization and reduced the level of lipids.
@highlight Ferulic acid did not affect the growth of worm food resource of
@highlight OP50 or animal food intake behavior.
@highlight Ferulic acid also ameliorated poly Q aggregations in Huntingtons disease worm characterized by misfolded or aggregated proteins.
