 Plant water deficit index represents the extent of water stress by relating soil moisture to the ability of a plant to take up water including consideration of the relative distribution of soil water to roots . However for a smart irrigation decision support system we are challenged in determining reliable thresholds of PWDI to initiate irrigation events to achieve predetermined yield and or water use efficiency targets . Taking drip irrigated maize and sprinkler irrigated alfalfa as examples field experiments were conducted to investigate the choice and effects of PWDI thresholds . The results indicated that with increasing PWDI thresholds irrigation times and quantity of water as well as crop transpiration growth and yield were all significantly limited while WUE was enhanced except under extremely stressed conditions . To disconnect the unpredictable effects of other factors yield and WUE were normalized to their corresponding potential values . Within the experimentally determined range of PWDI relative yield and WUE were described with linear functions for maize and linear and quadratic functions for alfalfa allowing identification of the most efficient threshold value according to the objective parameter of choice . The method described can be adopted in smart irrigation decision support systems with consideration of spatial variability and after further verification and improvement under more complicated situations with various crop types and varieties environmental conditions cultivation modes and wider or dynamic PWDI thresholds allowing regulated deficit irrigation .

@highlight A root weighted plant water deficit index PWDI is applied for smart irrigation.
@highlight Increasing PWDI threshold decreases irrigation times depth crop growth and yield.
@highlight Increasing PWDI threshold increases water use efficiency WUE until extreme stress.
@highlight Relationships between PWDI threshold and relative yield WUE are quantified.
@highlight Designed relative yield WUE targets can be achieved with a reliable PWDI threshold.
