 In agriculture soilless cropping represents the most suitable cultivation technique apt to achieve a theoretical 100 efficiency of water and nutrient use . This is possible through a high control of input streams in the cultivation system . Soilless cultivation indeed allows high precision in nutrient and water management so that particular agronomic techniques which are risky in other cultivation systems can be managed more safely under soilless conditions . Even in the so called open cycles water and nutrient losses can be minimized by the combination of sensing technologies and nutrient delivery strategies aiming at zero emissions . However soilless cropping allows collection and reuse of the drainage in closed growing systems thereby avoiding or minimizing water and nutrient losses into the environment . The main challenge when managing closed systems in southern Europe conditions is usually the progressive salinization of the recirculating solution because of saline irrigation waters often available in many in coastal areas of the Mediterranean . The use of alternative water sources like rainwater or desalinated water can prevent this problem but their availability is limited . Advanced recirculation strategies have demonstrated a high potential for reusing the solution under saline conditions with optimal use and minimal discharge of nutrients . Hence there is currently enough knowledge to support a larger application of closed soilless systems in Mediterranean conditions . On the other hand proper choices in terms of cultivation facilities and structures and plant material can be relevant to achieve high water and nutrient use efficiency . The main relevant techniques and technologies to minimize water and nutrient losses from soilless grown vegetable crops in southern Europe are reviewed in this paper .

@highlight Soilless can boost intensive vegetable production in southern Europe.
@highlight Precise control of water and nutrient supply is essential.
@highlight The presence of ballast ions limits the recirculation of the nutrient solution.
@highlight Modern technologies are available to limit water and nutrient emissions.
@highlight Nutrient management strategies and agronomic choices also play key roles.
