 Water deficit is one of the most sever worldwide problems of agricultural systems which influences both yield and quality . Applying compositions like salicylic acid can improve plant resistance against environmental stresses . The present study was conducted to evaluate the impact of irrigation intervals and SA application on plant growth osmotic parameters oil yield and oil composition of milk thistle . A completely randomized design was applied with a factorial arrangement of two factors irrigation intervals as the first factor including 5 days 10 days 15 days 20 days and SA application as the second factor including 0 0.5 and 1mM . From the obtained results it was clear that water deficit damaged plant growth including relative water content seed yield and oil content . Results show that spraying 0.5mM SA partially increased plant growth and seed yield parameters under control condition . Under drought stress conditions spraying 1mM of SA had more significant effects on higher seed yield and oil content compared to 0.5Mm . Drought stress increased proline content total soluble carbohydrates sucrose total phenolic compounds and DPPH free radical scavenging while applying 1mM of SA increased these parameters in both well watered and water deficit conditions . In addition the production of linolenic acid palmitic acid and stearic acid enhanced under drought stress while linoleic acid and total soluble proteins dropped by increasing drought intensity . Applying 1mM of SA increased all these parameters more effectively than other SA treatments . According to our results we suggest that SA can play an essential role as a regulator for improving osmotic adjustment RWC and yield of milk thistle plants under drought stress conditions . Therefore the application of a proper amount of SA can be considered as a practical and straightforward strategy for increasing seed oil quality and seed yield for both industrial and edible purposes in arid and semi arid areas .

@highlight Salicylic acid boost the vegetative growth and yield by improving RWC in drought stress conditions.
@highlight Exogenously applied salicylic acid increased osmotic adjustment under drought stress.
@highlight Antioxidant effects of seed essence increased in drought stress and salicylic acid application.
@highlight Drought stress decreased oil and linoleic acid content while increased stearic acid and linolenic acid.
