 Water scarcity in dry areas is driving agriculture towards increased utilization of marginal to poor quality water sources for irrigation . This includes groundwater and recycled wastewater that tend to be characterized by high levels of minerals and commonly of problematic salts . Israel has been a global leader in irrigation application efficiency use of groundwater with relatively high concentrations of salts and recycled municipal wastewater and recently in the use of large scale seawater desalination for human consumption and irrigation . Irrigation with water high in salts has been shown to be unsustainable in many dry regions mostly due to increasing salinity of soil subsoil and groundwater resulting from the application and leaching of salts . We present a summary of the direct effects of salinity on crop production of its management in vegetable crops and of the environmental consequences of different salinity management practices . The objective of this review is to provide a fundamental understanding of the advantages and limitations of irrigating vegetable crops as a function of water quality considering good quality surface and groundwater saline brackish water treated wastewater and desalinated water . The long term experience of irrigation of annual vegetable and other horticultural crops with diverse water qualities in Israel is reviewed . The environmental implications of irrigation as a function of water salinity both on a national scale and using a local case study of irrigation with brackish groundwater of vegetables in Israel s Arava Valley are discussed . Finally possible management strategies are suggested to reduce environmental consequences of irrigation with water containing salts and address the fundamental question can irrigated arid zone vegetable production be sustainable

@highlight Vegetables are irrigated with waters of variable qualities.
@highlight Integrated irrigation fertilization and salt management vital for sustainability.
@highlight Irrigation with water high in salts causes groundwater contamination.
@highlight Nitrate is the major pollutant in arid and semi arid regions.
@highlight Desalination can promote strategies for sustainable irrigation.
