 Internationally furrow irrigation efficiency remains frustratingly less than desired . In Australia reviews of irrigated cotton farming reveal deep drainage losses are at least 1.0ML Ha cropping season and irrigators are using excessive cultivation which causes rapid consolidation of tilth and slows infiltration . This research sought to evaluate the ability of deep blade loosening shallow cultivation and no tillage soil management practices and 2 dimensional infiltration theory to respectively facilitate and predict lateral water penetration to the centre of wide beds and to develop a simple irrigation practice based on assured wetting of bed centres . Field scale research was undertaken on self mulching clay on the Queensland Darling Downs . Bulk density and soil moisture changes to 1000mm depth beneath furrows and beds were monitored in a maize crop that was irrigated twice . The duration of water applications water inflow rates and water advance in furrows were also recorded . The absorption form of 2 dimensional infiltration theory predicted the time for water to reach the centre of beds and the amount of water infiltrated at given times in all treatments . Only the DBL treatment enhanced lateral sorptivity and infiltration . It had a ratio of lateral to vertical water penetration of 3 1 . In contrast the SC and NT treatments had ratios of 1 1 took two to three times longer for bed centres to wet and were much more susceptible to deep drainage losses beneath furrows and bed shoulders . An illustrative example shows how this technology specifies the rate and duration of water applications and improves irrigation efficiency and effectiveness . Conservative estimates of water savings generated by its use lie between 0.25 and 0.80ML Ha irrigation .

@highlight Deep blade loosening retained tilth porosity shallow cultivation and no tillage did not.
@highlight Deep blade loosened soil created larger lateral than vertical sorptivity.
@highlight Deep blade loosened soil required less water and time to wet bed centres.
@highlight Philips two dimensional theory described infiltration in all three soil management treatments.
@highlight A new irrigation practice will improve irrigation efficiency and effectiveness.
