 The ridge furrow mulching system with plastic film is considered an effective strategy to improve grain yield and has been widely used in arid and semi arid rainfed agricultural areas . However the key mechanism by which RFMS increases yield and efficiency under different hydrothermal conditions remains unclear . Understanding this mechanism and the interaction between different RFMSs and hydrothermal conditions could provide a practical reference for optimizing cultivation . We aimed to investigate the yield increase potential of different planting systems under the same hydrothermal conditions and evaluate the effects of RFMS treatments on drought resistance and yield increase under different hydrothermal conditions . The following planting treatments were carried out in ridgefurrow prepared fields under seven different hydrothermal conditions in a representative rainfed agricultural area for four consecutive years 1 ridge furrow mulching system with complete coverage 2 ridge furrow mulching system with ridge coverage and 3 planting without mulching . Compared with CT RFMS improved field hydrothermal conditions and reduced evapotranspiration of crops . In more hydrothermally limited areas the grain yield and water use efficiency with RC significantly increased by 49.95 and 57.12 compared with that of CT respectively . However RR and RC had no significant difference in grain yield and WUE in areas less hydrothermally limited but increased by 13.51 and 22.19 compared with that of CT. Additionally RFMS improved economic benefits especially in hydrothermally limited areas with RC increasing benefits by 142.64 200.84 compared with that of CT . Therefore RC can be used as the optimal technique to overcome simultaneous drought and cold weather in rainfed agricultural areas under hydrothermally limited conditions .

@highlight RFMS improves soil water availability and grain yield under different conditions.
@highlight RFMS could regulate hydrothermal conditions during maize growing season.
@highlight RFMS with complete coverage is conducive for more limited hydrothermal conditions.
@highlight RFMS with ridge coverage is conducive for less limited hydrothermal conditions.
