 There is an urgent need to consider adaptation strategies for agricultural water resources in response to the ever growing demand for freshwater around the world . This is especially poignant in arid and semi arid regions like the Middle East and North Africa where water resources have been extremely limited historically . Today water resources are declining due to a variety of factors including climate change population growth and changing food preferences . Research on this topic typically seeks to assess the impact of discreet alternative interventions in isolation . However it is necessary to analyze the broader factors affecting agricultural water management as interconnected components of a complex water governance system within a specific geographic context . This research uses an exploratory formative scenario planning approach to a identify important adaptation strategies b use those adaptation strategies to construct a small set of coherent plausible and diverse regional agricultural water governance scenarios and c analyze future scenarios of the Zayandehroud watershed in Iran in the year 2040 . The research shares five scenarios that exemplify divergent adaptation and mitigation approaches to agriculture water demand in Zayandehroud watershed including adhering to the status quo . Each scenario embodies different economic and political priorities to reveal how those priorities impact the ecological social and economic sustainability of this watershed . These scenarios provide insights into the long term implications of near term decisions about water and food security resilience of local communities and the ecological integrity of the regional watershed . This research explores the conceptual relationships between components of the water governance system and demonstrates an approach to analyzing alternative constellations of factors that will impact agricultural water management . Policy makers can make more effective policies if they consider how to transform the broader system of regional water governance rather than only evaluating discrete agricultural water management projects on a project by project basis .

@highlight Five agricultural water management scenarios are constructed for 2040.
@highlight Scenarios emphasis system level integration rather than discrete interventions.
@highlight Stakeholder knowledge supported the analysis and depict a broad range of values.
