 Competition for water between agriculture and the environment is a growing problem in irrigated regions across the globe especially in endorheic basins with downstream freshwater lakes impacted by upstream irrigation withdrawals . This study presents and applies a novel simulation optimization approach for identifying water management strategies in such settings . Our approach combines three key features for increased exploration of strategies . First minimum environmental flow requirements are treated as a decision variable in the optimization model yielding more flexibility than existing approaches that either treat it as a precomputed constraint or as an objective to be maximized . Second conjunctive use is included as a management option by using dynamically coupled surface water and groundwater simulation models . Third multi objective optimization is used to yield entire Pareto sets of water management strategies that trade off between meeting environmental and agricultural water demand . The methodology is applied to the irrigated Miyandoab Plain located upstream of endorheic Lake Urmia in Northwestern Iran . Results identify multiple strategies i.e . combinations of minimum environmental flow requirements deficit irrigation and crop selection that simultaneously increase environmental flow and agricultural profit compared to historical conditions . Results further show that significant temporary drops in agricultural profit occur during droughts when long term profit is maximized but that this can be avoided by increasing groundwater pumping capacity and temporarily reducing the lakes minimum environmental flow requirements . Such a strategy is feasible during moderate droughts when resulting declines in groundwater and lake water levels fully recover after each drought . Overall these results demonstrate the usefulness and flexibility of the methodology in identifying a range of potential water management strategies in complex irrigated endorheic basins like the Lake Urmia basin .

@highlight Simulation optimization approach for water management in irrigated endorheic basins.
@highlight Spatially distributed simulation of surface water and groundwater resources.
@highlight Multi objective optimization to meet environmental and agricultural water demand.
@highlight Conjunctive use and time variable environmental flow requirements to tackle droughts.
@highlight Sustainable water management strategies for the Lake Urmia basin.
