 Due to the increasing freshwater deterioration and demand for irrigation there is pressing need to reclaim and reuse wastewater for agricultural operations . While this practice is gaining significant traction in developed world it is quite rare in most developing countries with inadequate or no functional sewerage facilities and treatment systems at both municipal and industrial levels occasioned by high investment and operational costs . Consequently wastewaters generated are in complex heterogenous mix of industrial domestic municipal and agricultural runoff wastewater . Biological technologies which utilize the expertise of microorganisms are considered robust efficient and economically attractive for treatment of wide range of wastewaters and they have high suitability in developing countries . This work therefore assessed the potential of suspended growth biological process for reclamation and reuse of mixed wastewater composed a mixture of domestic effluent pharmaceutical textile petroleum discharges and agricultural runoff for irrigation of edible crops with plants phenological parameters as measuring indicators . The germination and phenological characteristics of crops were studied in a hydroponic unit under four irrigation regimes tap water as control mixed wastewater SGBP treated wastewater and tap water mixed with nutrient solution as upper control for a duration of 45 d. The results proved that the SGBP treated wastewater had no negative impact on germination responses of the seed crops . However residual recalcitrant compounds caused early stunted growth in plant root systems with resultant limited access to nutrients . Consequently plant vegetative growth and phenological development as well as chlorophyll production were reduced . In comparison to nutrients supplemented solution nutrients deficiency and imbalance in treated wastewater contributed to the poor development in irrigated plants . The outcomes of seed germination and plant growth experiments show a positive indication for reuse of mixed wastewater in agriculture . However there is need for further research to explore the long term benefits and limitations of reusing such treated wastewater .

@highlight Organics removal is enhanced by extended biomass acclimation to complex compounds.
@highlight Complex compounds exert early inhibition on roots elongation and shoots emergence.
@highlight Complex organics and nutrient deficiency impair the wastewater reuse potential.
