 Regulated deficit irrigation involves water stress management in different phenological periods throughout the season . Research in olive trees suggested RDI during pit hardening based in pre dawn and midday stem water potential thresholds . However the previous thresholds may not be extrapolated to table olive because fruit size a very important feature in the table olive yield quality is very sensitive to water stress . RDI in table olive deserve further research to determine the optimal water potential thresholds and the duration of the RDI periods for the specificity of the crop . The aim of this work was to study different RDI schedules during pit hardening considering different levels and durations of water stress . The experiment was performed in the 2015 2016 and 2017 seasons in a commercial mature table olive orchard in Dos Hermanas . Control treatments were based on midday SWP measurement in order to optimize the water status with values around 1.4MPa . Two RDI treatments were applied during pit hardening dated from mid June to the last week of August to maintain water potential values around 2MPa and 3.5MPa . Another RDI treatment received irrigation to maintain values around 3.5MPa but the recovery was performed at early July in order to obtain different durations of water stress . Irrigation strategies were evaluated with water relations measurements fruit and shoot growth and quality and quantity yield indicators . Yield was not significantly affected in any of the RDI treatments with an ANOVA analysis . However fruit drop estimated as the percentage of fruit lost only in the period of water deficit was related with water stress parameters . In addition the relationship between fruits size and these latter parameters were significant and change according to yield level . Irrigation treatments did not affect next season yield because shoot growth and number of inflorescence at the beginning of each season were not different . RDI effect changed according to yield level mainly in relation with fruit size . Data suggest that yield levels up to 12t ha

@highlight RDI during pit hardening developed fruit drop with severe water stress.
@highlight Table olive yield response was affected for fruit size and fruit drop.
@highlight Fruit load changed yield response to RDI treatments based on crop water Status.
