 In dryland agricultural production areas knowledge on the growth and variation of winter wheat root systems under different mulching methods is important for guiding winter wheat production . We conducted a two year field trial to explore the effects of different mulching practices on the spatial temporal distribution of root growth soil water storage and grain yield . Four cultivation practices were tested traditional flat planting flat planting with half film mulching ridgefurrow planting with film mulching over ridges only and ridgefurrow planting with film mulching over ridges and wheat straw mulching in furrows . The results showed that the root diameter root length density and root surface area density of wheat under the four treatments were mainly concentrated in the 040cm soil layer . The mean RLD in the 040cm soil layer accounted for 62.2 61.0 59.3 and 55.8 of the total root length density under M3 M2 M1 and CK respectively at maturity in both years . The M3 cultivation method produced the maximum values for RD RLD and RSD among all cultivation practices and the highest water storage efficiency after the three precipitation events . The M3 treatment had 11.1 15.4 and 38.4 higher mean grain yields than M2 M1 and CK respectively over the two year study . Soil water storage had positive correlations with RD RLD and RSD . The RD RLD and RSD in the 040cm soil layer had strong positive correlations with yield components yield aboveground biomass and water use efficiency . Based on this study ridgefurrow planting with film mulching over ridges and wheat straw mulching in furrows is an effective sustainable cultivation method for wheat production in rainfed regions which can increase the spatial temporal distribution of root systems and soil water content across the root zones to increase crop production and WUE .

@highlight Root diameter RD root length density RLD and root surface area density RSD reached the maximum at the anthesis stage.
@highlight RD RLD and RSD were mainly concentrated in the 040cm soil layer.
@highlight Soil water storage had positive correlations with RD RLD and RSD.
@highlight The RD RLD and RSD had strong positive correlations with yield components yield aboveground biomass and water use efficiency WUE .
@highlight Ridge furrow dual mulching is most effective to increase root distribution crop production and WUE.
