 Much of the agricultural production in the Ogallala Aquifer region relies on groundwater for irrigation . In addition to declining water levels weather and climate driven events affect crop yields and revenues . Crop insurance serves as a risk management tool to mitigate these perils . Here we seek to understand what long term crop insurance loss data can tell us about agricultural risk management in the Ogallala . We assess patterns and trends in crop insurance loss data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Risk Management Agency . Indemnities or insurance payments totaled 22 billion from 19892017 for the 161 counties that overlie the Ogallala Aquifer . We focused on the top ten weather and climate driven causes of crop loss for the Ogallala which comprised at least 92 of total indemnities . Drought hail and heat were the leading causes of crop loss for the region and varied over space and time . For example drought is a significant cause of loss across all seasons while hail is more prevalent in the spring and summer . Spatially heterogeneous patterns emerged showing larger hail indemnities in the northern Ogallala versus larger drought indemnities in the southern portion . We performed a Mann Kendall trend analysis of county level annual loss cost values . Drought and excess moisture showed significant increasing loss cost trends in the western counties of the Ogallala . In contrast hail showed significant decreasing trends in the northern and eastern portions . These results suggest the northern counties of the Ogallala may perceive hail as a greater risk and may be better equipped to handle drought losses as compared with the southern Ogallala . Crop insurance loss data play a role in integrating long term trends with near term management practices and providing relevant risk information in producers operational to tactical decision making processes .

@highlight Drought and hail are the leading causes of crop loss over the Ogallala Aquifer.
@highlight Divergent patterns of risk emerge given seasonal and county level patterns.
@highlight Northern and southern portions of the Ogallala perceive hail losses differently.
@highlight Crop insurance loss data link long term trends with near term decision making.
