 The analysis of the electrophysiological activity of plants permits a real time information of the plant status . However even though it is clear that the role of the electrical signals in plant is crucial especially in processes involving the propagation of rapid signals a systematic approach for the interpretation of the electrical patterns is still missing . In this work a multi electrodes approach has been applied to study the electrical signals in olive trees plants subjected to three different level of water stress . In particular by using specific water irrigation regimes a control group a mid mild stressed group and a high stressed group have been monitored and subsequently subjected to a long period of prolonged drought stress . Physiological parameters and electrical activity have been continuously monitored for the whole experiment to highlight any correlation between the electric signal and the water stress . Our results showed that it has been possible to differentiate the electric signals related to drought conditions of different intensity . In particular we have found that the average daily relative electrical resistance change the opposite of the electrical conductance is directly related to the drought stress whilst the signal variance increases during the period of main water stress . Additionally a proposed signal classification system has been successfully able to detect the absence presence of stress and to effectively recognize daily class samples . The set up could provide a useful tool for monitoring water conditions in plants and has several potential applications for sensor and automatic system in greenhouse or field able to monitor directly the plant water status .

@highlight Electrical signal can be used to detect the plant hydric status.
@highlight Stem electrodes are not indirect and sense directly from the plant.
@highlight The daily signal resistance and variance can be used to classify drought stress.
@highlight A multi electrodes approach can be easily applied for monitoring numerous plants.
@highlight Improved signal classifications can be used to automatically detect other stresses.
