 Agricultural production in arid and semi arid regions is threatened by increased droughts and groundwater depletion . Farmers increasingly must weigh the short term economic gains from irrigation against the long term aquifer longevity needs . Risk based deficit irrigation is proposed to tackle this trade off . A tiered risk assessment approach is developed to evaluate crop yield loss risks as a function of crop water supply from irrigation and precipitation . Risk is defined as the probability of obtaining a crop yield below a pre specified threshold . Logistic regression is used to quantify risks as a function of CWS if the producer can specify a fixed minimum yield threshold . Distribution regression is used to develop the cumulative distribution function of the crop yield assuming heterogeneous model parameter and is useful when the producer can estimate CWS but can not specify a minimum yield threshold . Finally the CWS is also modeled as a stochastic variable and the crop yield risk conditioned on CWS risk is computed using the Kolmogorov axiom . The methodology is illustrated using a cotton production case study in the Southern High Plains of Texas . Logistic regression indicated that crop yield risk was a nonlinear function of CWS . CWS corresponding to 80 of the total crop water demand was enough to reach negligible crop yield risks . Heterogeneous cotton yield distribution was modeled using Box Cox Cole Green function with location and scale parameters being nonlinear and linear functions of CWS respectively and a stationary shape parameter . Irrigation at lower CWS reduced the risks substantially but the risk reductions were marginal at higher CWS . The conditional distribution of crop yield risk indicated that CWS corresponding to 80 85 of crop water demand was enough to bring down risks . The tiered risk assessment provides a rational risk based approach to evaluate the impacts of crop water supply reductions and promote deficit irrigation practices .

@highlight Assess trade offs between short term gains and long term water conservation.
@highlight Assessment of crop yield risks as a function of deficit irrigation.
@highlight Stochastic models with heterogeneous model parameters for crop yield risk crop water supply relations.
@highlight Tiered crop yield risk assessment under varying levels of uncertainty.
@highlight Logistic distribution regression and kernel density estimation for crop risk assessment.
