 Accurate design suitable management and optimization of irrigation design parameters play an important role in increasing the performance of furrow irrigation . The main objective of this study was to optimize the performance of furrow irrigation using WinSRFR in the fields of Salman Farsi Agro Industry sugarcane located in the southwest of Iran . For this purpose field experiments were conducted under nine blocked ended furrows with the length of 250m the top width of 1.83m and slope of 0.04 and in three inflow treatments with three repetitions . The WinSRFR software was employed to optimize the combination of irrigation parameters such as inflow rate cut off time and field geometry . Objective function including application efficiency distribution uniformity and deep percolation was also employed to optimize the performance . The results showed that using 1.0L s inflow rate could increase OF by 35.99 which was the best performance compared to 1.5 and 2.0l s. Changing furrow length from 250m to 200m showed that OF value increased by 39.8. however changing it to 300m OF decreased by 7.7 . In addition changing slope from 0.04 to 0.03 decreased OF by 0.9. while changing it to 0.05 OF was improved by 1 . On the other hand changing the inflow and cut off time field length and combinations of them led to the increased OF by 25 8.39 and 31 respectively . Finally to obtain the maximum performance in sugarcane fields inflow rate of 3L s and cut off time of 379.5min were suggested .

@highlight We investigated optimization of furrow irrigation performance in sugarcane fields using WinSRFR.
@highlight We used nine blocked ended furrows with the length of 250m slope of 0.04 and three inflow treatments.
@highlight WinSRFR software was employed to optimize inflow rate cut off time and field geometry.
@highlight Application efficiency distribution uniformity and deep percolation were employed to optimize the performance.
@highlight To obtain the maximum performance in sugarcane fields inflow rate of 3L s and cut off time of 379.5min were suggested.
