 This study develops a methodology to assess the comparative advantages of new methods to plan irrigation with respect to prevailing existing irrigation practices . The methodology consists of a comparative cost benefit analysis based on the Value of Information approach that makes it possible to analyse whether an improvement in the information available to farmers generates economic benefits . The method is applied to the problem of comparing computer irrigation models and prevailing irrigation practices in estimating and predicting crop water requirements in pilot experiments located in four different European regions . The results reveal that the introduction of the alternative method improves the performance of irrigation practices in Mediterranean regions that are characterised by high weather variability and for those crops for which the consequences of failing to meet predictions are relatively low . Under favourable conditions the use of the alternative technology generates a 020 increase in gross margin and a 1030 water saving with respect to prevailing existing irrigation practices . The study concludes by addressing the conditions that justify the use of advanced information systems to schedule irrigation interventions and by offering some policy recommendations to drive their uptake . These include subsidising research at the evaluation stage and public investments aimed at knowledge creation and knowledge sharing at the adoption stage .

@highlight The present study compares different sources of information to schedule irrigation intervention.
@highlight The methodology is analysing the role plaid by information in influencing farmers irrigation practices.
@highlight The method is applied to the problem of comparing different technologies for irrigation scheduling.
@highlight The proposed methodology was applied to pilot experiments located in four different European regions.
@highlight The study offers policy recommendations to drive the diffusion of advanced irrigation scheduling technologies.
