 Integrated groundwater management is a major challenge for industrial agricultural and domestic activities . In some agricultural production systems optimized water table management represents a significant factor to improve crop yields and water use . Therefore predicting water table depth becomes an important means to enable real time planning and management of groundwater resources . This study proposes a decision tree based modelling approach for WTD forecasting as a function of precipitation previous WTD values and evapotranspiration with applications in groundwater resources management for cranberry farming . Firstly two decision tree based models namely Random Forest and Extreme Gradient Boosting were parameterized and compared to predict the WTD up to 48 h ahead for a cranberry farm located in Qubec Canada . Secondly the importance of the predictor variables was analyzed to determine their influence on WTD simulation results . WTD measurements at three observation wells within a cranberry field for the growing period from July 8 2017 to August 30 2017 were used for training and testing the models . Statistical parameters such as the mean squared error coefficient of determination and Nash Sutcliffe Efficiency coefficient were used to measure models performance . The results show that the XGB model outperformed the RF model for all predictions of WTD and was accordingly selected as the optimal model . Among the predictor variables the antecedent WTD was the most important for water table depth simulation followed by the precipitation . Based on the most important variables and optimal model the prediction error for entire WTD range was within 5 cm for 1 12 24 36 and 48 h predictions . The XGB models can provide useful information on the WTD dynamics and a rigorous simulation for irrigation planning and management in cranberry fields .

@highlight Our study analyzed the groundwater movement in cranberry fields to optimize irrigation management.
@highlight Machine learning algorithms have been used to predict water table depth as a function of weather conditions.
@highlight Prediction models are necessary for irrigation planning and management to maintain an adequate groundwater level.
@highlight Factors affecting water table depth fluctuations were determined to characterize the dynamic behavior of the water table.
