 Effective and efficient methods are needed to map agricultural subsurface drainage systems . Visible color multispectral and thermal infrared imagery obtained by unmanned aerial vehicles may provide a means for determining drainage pipe locations . Aerial surveys using a UAV with VIS C MS and TIR cameras were conducted at 29 agricultural field sites in the Midwest U.S.A. to evaluate the potential of this technology for mapping buried drainage pipes . Overall results show VIS C imagery detected at least some drain lines at 48 of the sites MS imagery detected drain lines at 59 of the sites and TIR imagery detected drain lines at 69 of the sites . Three key findings listed as follows and emphasized in this article by site examples were extracted from the overall results . Although TIR generally worked best there were sites where either VIS C or MS proved more effective than TIR for mapping subsurface drainage systems . Consequently to ensure the greatest chance for successfully determining drainage pipe patterns in a field UAV surveys need to be carried out with all three types of cameras VIS C MS and TIR . Timing of UAV surveys relative to recent rainfall can sometimes have an important impact on drainage pipe detection results . Linear features representing drain lines and farm field operations can be confused with one another and are often both depicted on site aerial imagery . Knowledge of subsurface drainage system installation and farm field operations can be employed to distinguish linear features representing drain lines from those representing farm field operations . The overall results and extracted key findings from this study clearly indicate that VIS C MS and TIR imagery obtained with UAVs have significant potential for use in mapping agricultural drainage pipe systems .

@highlight Thermal infrared aerial imagery identified buried drain pipes at 69 of field sites.
@highlight Visible multispectral and thermal infrared imagery are useful for drainage mapping.
@highlight Aerial survey drainage mapping results can be impacted by timing of recent rainfall.
@highlight Developed criteria distinguish drainage features from farming operation features.
