 Water is a natural resource for agricultural irrigation . Recycling use of water is important in terms of resource conservation and is good for sustainable development of the ecological environment . The wastewater from daily living and industrial production contains various chemicals that are supposed as pollutants leading to the decline of water quality . For the demand of water protection and recycling the assessment of water pollution level should be evaluated . An effective scientific technique is required for rapid detection of water pollution . Near infrared spectroscopy is a modern technology suitable for rapid detection of agricultural targets . For monitoring the agricultural water resource the NIR modeling methods are required to be smart and artificially controlled to solve the issues when we confront a considerable number of data or a dynamic situation . In this study an improved convolutional neural network architecture was designed for a deep calibration on the NIR data . The architecture is shallow simply constructed with one convolution layer and one pooling layer . The decision tree algorithm was employed in the pooling layer for extracting the informative features in a data driven manner . The CNN architecture was trained by combined tuning of multiple parameters in different layers . The convolution filters the decision tree branches and the hidden neurons in the fully connected layer were automatically adaptive with fidelity to the measured data . A CNN calibration model for NIR quantitatively determination of water pollution level was then established and optimized in deep learning mode and eventually improved the NIR prediction accuracy . Prospectively the designed shallow CNN architecture is feasible to be used for establishing intelligent spectroscopic models for evaluating the level of water pollution and is expected to provide smart technical support in dealing with the issues of water recycling and conservation for agricultural cultivation .

@highlight NIR analysis of water for evaluating its recycling for agricultural cultivation.
@highlight To design a deep learning CNN architecture for NIR model optimization.
@highlight Decision tree employed for CNN pooling as smart feature extraction strategy.
@highlight To realize intelligent parameter optimization by a shallow CNN architecture.
