 Participatory irrigation management has been broadly promoted by public administrators and donor organizations . The reasons for this push include performance failures of state controlled irrigation schemes and the need to improve irrigation productivity for meeting rising food demands . A popular reform for increasing participation and ownership is represented by Irrigation Management Transfers . IMTs mean replacing the government with the civil society in irrigation management and they go beyond working with the public sector as in PIM . These widely implemented reforms produced mixed experiences . Besides the evaluation of IMT cases is reliant on scarce quantitative data . IMTs are also difficult to replicate due to methodological issues . However qualitative research can engage with stakeholders perceptions and narratives especially the most relevant target group namely farmers . We provide in this study stakeholders opinions and attitudes towards several waves of IMT reforms in the Gezira scheme in Sudan . This mega scheme is of high developmental and socio cultural importance for the country ever since the independence from the British Empire . Using a perception survey and in depth interviews with key informants we illustrate the failure legacies to reform the Gezira scheme by enhancing farmers participation through Water User Associations . While both farmers and experts have suggested a poor implementation inadequate farmers involvement and unclear objectives of the reforms the reforms recurrent failures are explained within complex historic and political contexts . There are long standing legacies of development missteps of the Gezira scheme with no clear and ultimate triggers of performance deterioration . Besides splits in professional cultures power imbalances political instrumentalization and the lack of farmers awareness or capacities are salient factors for understanding the poor state of the Gezira scheme . It is difficult for stand alone irrigation management reforms to be successful . Such reforms need to be embedded within a comprehensive policy package that prioritizes irrigation governance and proposes sound regulations based on clear roles consensus making and prior consultation .

@highlight Participatory irrigation management as a popular policy with mixed results.
@highlight Importance of understanding failures of Irrigation Management Transfer IMT in Gezira scheme.
@highlight Opinions of experts and farmers perception confirm the reforms poor implementation.
@highlight Reform efforts in the Gezira scheme hindered by complex developmental legacies.
@highlight IMTs need to be embedded within sound irrigation governance and regulation.
