 Owing to contradicted scientific results trends in drought due to global warming have been assigned with medium confidence . Drought will likely continue inputting immense pressure on food security in fragile ecosystems like Sub saharan Africa . As an adaptation measure to severe drought events since the 1980s the overall goal of irrigated schemes thus has been shifted to sustain food security . This study assessed the impacts of such drought driven agricultural policy and future climate change on the performance of large irrigated schemes in SSA with special emphasis on the Gezira scheme GS Sudan . The optimized scenario of the baseline period developed in GAMS showed that the expansion of food crops on the expensive of cash crops resulted in a reduction of 83 in gross net benefits and loss of 63 in irrigation water in the GS since the severe drought of 1984 . The biased corrected rainfall and temperature outputs of three randomly selected regional climate models under unmitigated pathways suggested increased rainfall of 40mm increased temperature of 3.3C and 5 increase in reference evapotranspiration for the period 20402070 compared to the baseline . The predicted conditions experienced neither extreme drought nor extreme wet events however severe and moderately drought events remain a challenge up to 2060 . Due to climate change and current water management practices the FAO Aquacrop predicted reductions in crop yields and water productivity especially for cotton and sorghum of 40 and 29 respectively . Optimized future crop scenarios indicate that food crops such as sorghum and wheat are not viable . Cash and soil fertility maintenance crops would be better for sustaining economic viability . The agricultural policy and water management practices thus should be revisited to keep pace with future climate changes .

@highlight Little literature reported on impact of drought on irrigated schemes performance in SSA.
@highlight Expansion of food crops on expensive of cash crops jeopardized irrigation sustainability.
@highlight Optimized cash food cropping intensity provide tangible results.
@highlight Current water management practices and agricultural policy will not cope with climate change.
@highlight Food water energy climate change nexus is needed in Eastern Nile basin.
