 This work presents the first attempt to derive analytical solutions of a space fractional Boussinesq equation for parabola type 1 parabola type 2 and elliptical initial water table profiles denoted as SFBE P1 SFBE P2 and SFBE E respectively . Laboratory and field data published in literature were used to evaluate the performances of the fractional models in homogeneous and heterogeneous soils . Besides the performances of the proposed fractional models were compared with that of a fractional analytical solution developed in the literature for a flat initial water table condition . According to the results of the sensitivity analysis heterogeneity degree of soil had a more effect on outputs of the fractional models . Also the results indicated that the parameter in the SFBE P1 SFBE E and SFBE F was capable of describing well the heterogeneity degree of soil . The value was estimated almost 2 in relatively homogenous soil while its values were respectively appraised almost 1.3 and 1.1 in soils with average and relative heterogeneity degrees . The fractional models reduced to their counterpart classical ones in the relatively homogenous soil . The measurement and prediction results demonstrated the best and similar performance for the SFBE E and SFBE F models while the SFBE P2 models was the weakest . This behavior was also observed by using the classical models . Compared to the BE E the SFBE E provided better prediction results in the heterogeneous soils . Overall the SFBE E and SFBE F can be applied as practical models to simulate water table profile between two parallel drainpipes for both homogeneous and heterogeneous soils .

@highlight Analytical SFBE solutions were obtained under three initial water table profiles.
@highlight Performances of SFBE solutions were evaluated at laboratory and field scales.
@highlight SFBE E and SFBE F solutions gave better and similar performance.
@highlight SFBE models reduced to classical ones in the homogenous soil.
@highlight SFBE E model provided more accurate results than BE E model for heterogeneous soils.
