 Land degradation with water logging and salinity is global problem especially in arid and semiarid regions . As an alternative for capital intensive engineering approaches plantation forestry has been advocated as an eco friendly option to offset hydrological imbalances mainly for dryland salinity conditions . With robust monitoring world over reforestation mainly with fast growing versatile Eucalyptus species have emerged as the most water profligate . These lower the watertable by extracting soil water throughout the year and even from deeper soil and phreatic zones . The annual evapo transpiration of plantations vary from about 0.2 to 0.8 times OPE under dryland conditions and can equal or even exceed OPE under irrigated conditions . The factors like soil and climatic conditions groundwater depth and its quality growth rates of tree species their stocking patterns and the geometries and fraction of area under plantations define their effectiveness for water table draw down and salinity control . Nevertheless the emerging arguments against biomanagement include long timelag high land requirements and decline in their efficiency with salinity build up underneath plantations . To overcome these constraints shifting plantations in between discharge and recharge areas reforestation with salt tolerant species integrating these with cropping systems and even with engineering measures in saline discharge areas are the alternate options . The gainful employment of bio drainage demands the diagnosis of typical areas to be reforested in catchments using GIS remote sensing tools the development of decision support systems for appropriate designing of reforestation strategies and their amalgamation with existing farming systems . Benefits of plantations beyond on and off site salinity control should aim at enhanced farm incomes restoring biodiversity and particularly carbon trading when global interests are now targeting climate mitigation .

@highlight This review provides a critical analysis on the following.
@highlight Tree soil and climatic variables defining the evapo transpiration from plantations.
@highlight Ability of forestry plantations for water table draw down and its spatial extent.
@highlight Sustainability issues as of salt accumulations and alternate strategies.
@highlight Bio economic benefits beyond salinity control and their gainful employment.
