 Efficient agricultural water use is required for food safety and water alleviation on a global scale . Combining the water footprint and agricultural water use paradigms and enveloping water resource movement and its impact on the environment in the agricultural production process a hybrid framework for agricultural water utilization and efficiency evaluation was constructed in the current paper . The indicators water resources use efficiency and productivity are used in this framework for the total water exploitation the effective utilization rate and the production capacity measurement respectively . An empirical study on the framework was conducted with major cereals in 31 provinces autonomous regions and municipalities of China . The national WRU WRE and WRP values of integrated cereal were calculated to be 669.0G m 0.633 and 0.679kg m respectively from 1996 to 2015 . The PAMs with high WRE values were located in southwestern northeastern and northern China while the ones with low values were clustered in northwestern and southeastern China . The spatial distribution pattern of WRP is consistent with precipitation . The water use efficiency of the three specific crops in this framework increased over time . The WRE of maize was significantly higher than that of rice and wheat while the WRP of wheat was the lowest . WRU measures the total water resource appropriation during crop growth in both quantity and quality WRP was able to show where water use efficiency needs to be improved and the function of WRE to indicate water saving potential could not be replaced by notable indices such as irrigation efficiency or generalized efficiency . Therefore further research is warranted to evaluate agricultural water use efficiency at different scales using this hybrid framework .

@highlight Hybrid framework for agricultural water utilization and efficiency evaluation was constructed.
@highlight WRU WRE and WRP are water appropriation amount effective rate and production ability measurement.
@highlight Water use efficiency in China promoted over time while varied among both regions and crops.
@highlight Indices in hybrid framework were novelty and unique on scientific nature and spatial performance.
