 Produced water is the largest by product generated from oil and gas extraction . Currently half of the total PW volume is managed through environmentally controverted and costly disposal practices . In dry regions PW could be beneficially reused to irrigate crops reducing the overexploitation of freshwater resources . However PW quality and particularly its high salinity sodicity and alkalinity create uncertainties regarding the agro environmental sustainability and the cost of this practice . The aim of this paper was to identify potential agro environmentally sustainable irrigation schemes with gasfield PW in hyper arid Qatar and to estimate their operating costs . A soil water model was used to simulate the irrigation of sugar beet with gasfield PW under the climatic and soil conditions occurring in northern Qatar . Different irrigation strategies combining over irrigation PW blending with treated sewage effluent and PW desalination were tested in order to protect the soil and the aquifer from salinisation and sodification . The operating costs of identified agro environmentally sustainable scenarios were estimated through a cost analysis . In the case study the simulations indicated that using an irrigation volume up to 300 of the crop water needs with a blend of two thirds PW and one third TSE could preserve the soil stability crop yield and groundwater quality . The least cost option was to reduce the irrigation amount at a little over the crop water needs and mix PW with an equivalent volume of TSE or four equivalent volumes of desalinated PW which would cost 0.26 m

@highlight Irrigation with blended produced water can be agro environmentally sustainable.
@highlight Produced water reuse in irrigation is financially competitive.
@highlight Desalinating produced water is more costly than blending with treated sewage.
@highlight Water efficient irrigation preserves aquifer quality and is the least cost strategy.
@highlight Gas field produced water could be an unconventional irrigation resource in Qatar.
