 Field irrigation water management depends on interactions among crop yield soil water salt and groundwater salt in arid irrigation area with shallow saline groundwater . This paper presents a novel uncertainty simulation optimization framework for irrigation water allocation and sustainable agricultural environment which integrates simulation of physical processes of soil groundwater water and salt balance into an uncertainty based optimization model . The impacts of crop evapotranspiration soil water and salt and groundwater levels are interactively involved in the simulation model . Uncertainties presented as fuzzy boundary intervals and probability distribution functions are considered in the optimization model . This field irrigation water allocation framework emphasizes the role of field soil water and salt movement processes to decision making of irrigation water allocation . Then the proposed simulation optimization framework was applied to a case study in the Hetao Irrigation District an arid area of northwest China where soil salinity is a serious environmental problem induced by irrigation and shallow groundwater . Therefore optimal irrigation water allocation solutions can be generated for providing decision makers with reliable decision options where the maximum system benefits resulting from sustainable agricultural production are desired . Furthermore the results can support analysis of interrelationships among system benefits water allocation planning and groundwater depth soil salt content constraints . Scenario analysis 1 1.5 2 2.5 3m and no groundwater exchange consideration showed that the maximum net benefit could be Yuan with the groundwater table depth of 1.5m . Also the irrigation water allocation changed when the salt constraint was considered which indicates that the results obtained by the developed framework can alleviate soil salinization to a certain degree . Therefore this framework can provide more effective information for the irrigation water management and soil salinization control which is meaningful for the sustainable development of irrigation agriculture .

@highlight A new irrigation management framework coupling water salt process simulation and uncertain optimization was developed.
@highlight The framework emphasizes on agricultural sustainability with higher water use efficiency and soil salinity controlling.
@highlight Shallow groundwater level and soil salinity constraint have significant effects on the irrigation allocation decision.
