 The ridge and furrow rainwater harvesting planting system has many advantages for improving the use of water during dryland farming in semiarid areas but the optimally matched planting density for maximizing the productivity of foxtail millet is not known . Therefore field experiments were conducted during 20132015 to determine the soil water content with depth evapotranspiration agronomic traits grain yield and crop water productivity under different planting densities when using RFRH planting compared with traditional flat planting . The results show that a high planting density would lead to soil drought conditions in the late reproductive growth stage with reductions in individual plant traits and the harvest index in dry years . However we found that RFRH planting could reduce ET and improve the soil water content at 0 120cm soil layers in the jointing and filling stages as well as mitigating the crop water deficit in the reproductive growth stage and the decreased HI caused by a high planting density . Compared with traditional flat planting RFRH planting decreased the foxtail millet grain yield in the rainy year due to the relatively lower plant population but it increased the yield in the normal rainfall years of 2014 and 2015 as well as significantly improving the crop water productivity by 7.9 and 14.0 under the optimized planting density respectively . A relatively higher optimal planting density was always obtained in the furrows under RFRH planting compared with traditional flat planting in all three experimental years . Based on these results we recommend increasing the planting density in the furrows to increase the grain yield and crop water productivity under RFRH planting with a moderate planting density for foxtail millet in semiarid regions of China .

@highlight The ridge and furrow rainwater harvesting RFRH planting could alleviate the soil drought conditions in the late growth stage caused by high planting density.
@highlight High planting density did not increase the yield mainly because of plant growth restrictions in the reproductive growth stage.
@highlight The stable yield and high crop water productivity under RFRH planting are due to improved individual growth and harvest index especially with broad rows between plants.
@highlight We recommend the strategy of increasing the planting density in the furrows to increase the grain yield and WUE under RFRH planting.
