 The concept of groundwater vulnerability is used in groundwater management and risk assessment . Among the parameters contributing to groundwater vulnerability are depth to groundwater net recharge rate aquifer media topography vadose zone hydraulic conductivity aquifer thickness and pumping density rate in case of over pumping . Groundwater is considered an important water resource in Egypt . Hence this valuable source should be evaluated against its vulnerability to all possible pollution risks . In this research three areas are selected and representing different aquifer types with different hydrogeological characteristics . The first area is Al Minia governorate to represent the Nile valley region which is underlain by the Nile valley aquifer . The second area is Wadi Al Natrun to represent the Nile Delta fringes region which is underlain by Moghra aquifer . The last area is El Kharga Oasis to represent Western desert region which is underlain by Nubian Sandstone aquifer . A groundwater vulnerability maps for the three regions are produced using Microsoft Excel Golden Software Surfer 12 and the analytical hierarchy process method for rating and weighting the contributing eight parameters . The main outcome of this research is the vulnerability classification for each region supported by the corresponding vulnerability map . The study indicated that the highest weight is assigned to the depth to groundwater and soil media parameters while the lowest weight was assigned to the topography factor . The results indicated that for Al Minia study area about 85 of the aquifer is classified as medium vulnerability and about 11 is low to medium and 4 is medium to high . For Wadi Al Natrun study area about 67 of the aquifer is classified as medium vulnerability and about 3.3 is low to medium and 28.7 is medium to high . For El Kharga Oasis study area about 48.8 of the aquifer is classified as medium vulnerability and about 51.5 is low to medium .

@highlight In this study three study areas are selected to represent different aquifers types with different hydrogeological characteristics.
@highlight The overall objective of the study is to assess groundwater vulnerability in different aquifers.
@highlight Eight parameters are used including depth to groundwater aquifer hydraulic conductivity aquifer saturated thickness pumping density aquifer media topography texture of surface soil media and groundwater recharge.
@highlight Based on the research results it is recommended that the most suitable area for new reclamation activity should be located at low vulnerability zones.
