 Winter wheat is the predominant crop in the Huaibei Plain of Anhui Province China . The Huaibei Plain has a transitional climate and a shallow water table . As global warming accelerates climate change in the area may impact agricultural production . In shallow groundwater regions capillary rise can be large and it can act as an important water resource for crop use . However it is not clear how climate change will impact groundwater depths and crops . Based on local weather data from 1960 to 2010 a general circulation model HadGEM2 AO which performed best in simulating precipitation in the study area and three Representative Concentration Pathways the validated numerical model HYDRUS 1D was used to estimate the daily groundwater contribution to the crop root zone in 20112100 of different hydrological growing seasons . The largest groundwater contribution and deep drainage occurred at a water table depth of 1.5m . The groundwater contribution to crop root zones was largest for RCP 2.6 and the deep drainage was largest for RCP 8.5 . The results indicated that climate change could alter the distribution of the groundwater contribution in each growing period . Meanwhile the phenophases of winter wheat for RCP 2.6 were delayed while they were advanced for RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 . In wet and normal seasons there was no need for irrigation for RCP 4.5 during the whole growing season . However in a dry season a small amount of irrigation was still needed during the maturity stage for RCP 2.6 . In general the total irrigation amounts needed for winter wheat growth were reduced for all hydrological conditions with the three RCPs .

@highlight The effect of climate change on groundwater contributions to winter wheat are investigated.
@highlight The exchanges between soil water and groundwater will increase in the future.
@highlight Climate change alters groundwater contributions to the root zone of winter wheat during each growth period especially in the wet season.
@highlight Groundwater contributions remove the need for irrigation under RCP 4.5 in wet and normal growing seasons.
