 Irrigation scheduling decision support tools can improve water use efficiency by matching irrigation recommendations to prevailing soil and crop conditions within a season . Yet little research is available on how to support real time precision irrigation that varies within season in both time and space . We investigate the integration of remotely sensed NDVI time series soil moisture sensor measurements and root zone simulation forecasts for in season delineation of dynamic management zones and for a variable rate irrigation scheduling in order to improve irrigation scheduling and crop performance . Delineation of MZ was conducted in a 5.8 ha maize field during 2018 using Sentinel 2 NDVI time series and an unsupervised classification . The number and spatial extent of MZs changed through the growing season . A network of soil moisture sensors was used to interpret spatiotemporal changes of the NDVI . Soil water content was a significant contributor to changes in crop vigor across MZs through the growing season . Real time cluster validity function analysis provided in season evaluation of the MZ design . For example the total within MZ daily soil moisture relative variance decreased from 85 to below 25 . Finally using the Hydrus 1D model a workflow for in season optimization of irrigation scheduling and water delivery management was tested . Data simulations indicated that crop transpiration could be optimized while reducing water applications between 11 and 28.5 across the dynamic MZs . The proposed integration of spatiotemporal crop and soil moisture data can be used to support management decisions to effectively control outputs of

@highlight We used Sentinel 2 NDVI time series to delineate dynamic management zones MZ .
@highlight Changes in MZ patterns were consistent with soil moisture spatiotemporal variability.
@highlight Data variance fragmentation was used for daily evaluation of the dynamic MZ designs.
@highlight Soil moisture data and model forecasts can be used to schedule MZ irrigation.
