 The relationship between irrigation water availability and crop revenue is multifaceted . However most of the previous studies focused only on the direct effect of irrigation water on crop revenue or considered that the indirect effect passes only through the farmers improved farm inputs usage . Nevertheless unlike previous studies this study argues that a one sided argument that irrigation water directly causes high crop revenue or indirectly affects crop revenue only via the farmers improved farm inputs usage is incomplete as irrigation water not only directly contributes to crop revenue but also indirectly conduces to crop revenue via both the type of crops produced and the farmers improved farm inputs usage . Considering the previous studies limitations this study investigates pathways how small scale irrigation water affects crop revenue and identifies challenges of small scale irrigation farming in Fogera district Ethiopia . Results endorsed that irrigation water has both direct and indirect effects on crop revenue . The indirect effect is 67 percent of the total effect and it is mediated by both the type of crops produced and farmers improved farm inputs usage . The result also indicated that irrigation user farmers have a higher income more livestock assets and resources and better food housing and cloths than the non users . Moreover challenges related to agricultural output and input market were identified as the most severe problem followed by crop disease . The findings of our study suggest that to utilize the benefits of irrigation water properly it is crucial to encourage farmers to use more improved farm inputs and to shift from staple to cash crop production . Moreover farmers are frequently exposed to cheating by illegal brokers in the output market therefore it is also important to increase farmers accessibility to output and input markets the quality of improved farm inputs and the bargaining power of farmers with market information .

@highlight Irrigation water positively affects crop revenue the type of crops produced and the preparedness and ability of the farmers to use improved farm inputs.
@highlight Farmers with access to irrigation water have a higher income more livestock assets and resources and better food housing and cloths than the farmers without access to irrigation water.
@highlight Small scale irrigation water has both direct and indirect effects on crop revenue and the indirect effect is higher than the direct effect.
@highlight The indirect effect of irrigation water on crop revenue is mediated by both the type of crops produced and the preparedness and ability of the farmers to use of improved farm inputs.
@highlight In Fogera small scale irrigation scheme challenges related to agricultural output and input market were the most severe problems followed by crop diseases.
