 Climate change projections for Southern Europe reveal warming and drying trends for the upcoming decades bringing important challenges to Portuguese olive orchards in particular . We analyzed irrigation as an adaptation measure to ensure the future sustainability of olive tree yields in Alentejo the main olive producing area in Portugal . A dynamic crop model was used to simulate olive tree yields over the baseline and two future scenarios using a 4 member ensemble of state of the art climate model chains . Climate change projections point to an increase in mean temperature and potential evapotranspiration while a decrease in precipitation and actual evapotranspiration under both future scenarios . Future yield decreases 1520 and accumulated losses can reach 8t ha to 10t ha by 2080 . This decrease is due to enhanced heat and water stress under future climate conditions . As an adaptation measure irrigation was simulated but only applied at a certain water stress level . The results indicate higher yields due to this adaptation strategy in range with the present values thus alleviating the projected yield decreases in the future . The amount of water required for irrigation ranges from 60 to 85mm depending on the RCP which corresponds to 0.61 times the projected decrease in precipitation . However this value can reach up to 2times for one climate model chain . We conclude that while irrigation is a feasible adaptation measure against the threats of climate change in Alentejo olive orchards this strategy may be threatened by the scarcity of water resources . Outlining appropriate timely and cost effective adaptation measures is critical for the sustainability of both the environment and the Alentejo olive sector .

@highlight Climate change is projected to have adverse impacts on olive yields in Alentejo 
@highlight Future yields decrease 1520 RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 without irrigation 
@highlight Irrigation is tested under future RCP scenarios as an adaptation measure 
@highlight Irrigation allows to maintain future yields in range with the present values 1 
@highlight Under future uncertainty other adaption measures may also be needed.
