 Reclamation of saline sodic soils for agricultural and vegetation ecological establishment is an important way to solve food and environmental problems especially in developing countries . A watersalt regulation method using scheduled drip irrigation to control the soil matric potential at a depth of 0.2m immediately under drip emitters was proposed and the application effect of the method applied in field experiments was evaluated for reclamation of saline sodic wasteland at five sites with different climates land use objectives and planting patterns . A low salinity environment was created in the whole soil profile especially in the root zone and the salt leaching process was divided into three stages rapid desalination slow desalination and salt stabilization . The soil environment was improved with reclamation time resulting in improved land productivity crop yields at levels close to those in local farmland after 23 years and good landscape vegetation ecosystems were created by establishment of artificial vegetation and natural germination of seeds in the soil seed bank . Soil alkalization should receive some attention during the salt leaching process because it may affect the growth of acid loving plants . In addition the low survival rates for salt sensitive non salt tolerant landscape plants in the early reclamation period led to the creating a non saline soil environment by adding non saline soils into planting holes . Overall the watersalt regulation method to control SMP immediately under scheduled drip irrigation emitters is suited for saline sodic soils restoration and some suggestions were proposed for its better application according to the field experiments .

@highlight A water salt regulation method to reclamation saline sodic lands is proposed.
@highlight Agricultural utilization and vegetation establishment on salt affected soils was performed in different sites.
@highlight Soil environment was improved with increased reclamation time.
@highlight Crop yields at levels were close to those in local farmland after 23 years.
@highlight The approach can quickly create a good landscape and maintain good plant growth.
