 The widespread usage of the surface balance energy models coupled with remote sensing techniques proved their effectiveness in terms of accurately assessing evapotranspiration rates crop water requirements as well as crop water usage productivities . Still such models require diverse inputs elements including climatic topographic soil and remote sensing datasets . The availability of these inputs is questionable and outdated in many developing countries . Thus an Improved Surface Energy Balance Algorithm for Land also known as SEBALI was proposed and adapted for regions lacking soil related datasets . Still the usage of a standard calibration method in the surface energy balance models yielding constant value throughout the cropping season requires further revision and improvement . In this context this study proposed a novel dynamic calibration approach to be included within SEBALI related to the actual wind speed and relative humidity conditions . It was followed by the calibrations and validations of monthly evapotranspiration SEBALI values . Datasets were retrieved randomly from four countries representing different climatic zones between 2013 and 2014 and based on Eddy Covariance flux towers outputs . When calibrated results showed a Root Mean Square Error of 21.32 mm and an Average of Mean Error of 15.4 mm between monthly SEBALI outputs and flux towers datasets with an R squared value of 88.4 . When investigating SEBALI outputs on different buffered zones around the flux towers along a changing Normalized Difference Vegetation Index ET values were poorly correlated in any buffer zone outside the parcels boundary . RMSE showed values larger than 40 mm month even at a buffer zone of 250m . This was related to the diverse Land Use Land Cover classes generating different evapotranspiration rates found at the boundary of the selected parcels . With the proposed dynamic calibration the enhanced SEBALI could be then implemented in any agricultural region missing soil related datasets with high accuracy .

@highlight Dynamic calibration approach was proposed for better evapotranspiration estimation.
@highlight SEBALI model was validated in four different countries between 2013 and 2014.
@highlight Flux towers were only able to reflect accurate estimations on parcel level.
@highlight SEBALI could be implemented in any agricultural regions with high accuracy.
