 Wastewater reuse in agriculture can be a viable option to solve future freshwater shortages but may need an additional treatment process to become a safe option . As wastewater reuse interacts with many facets of coupled human and water systems the introduction of Stage II treatment systems in wastewater reuse in agriculture must be understood in terms of socio hydrology . This paper builds on a place based socio hydrological model of a wastewater reused watershed in South Korea and uses it to identify key parameters in human and water systems that have a significant impact on wastewater reuse in agriculture explore the impacts of changing agricultural environments by altering the key parameters and develop the possibility space of future changes from current decision making . Key parameters concern the characteristics of urbanization domestic water use and greenhouse cultivation . Urbanization can reduce the demand for Stage II irrigation within an urbanizing watershed by reducing irrigation areas and increasing water availability . Domestic water use has a large impact on the economics of indirect wastewater reuse . Greenhouse cultivation influences the demand for Stage II irrigation mainly by reducing water availability . Moreover it could further affect the demand if the communities evolved to have a greater concern for the use of groundwater resources . The possibility space shows that wastewater reuse has a strong influence on groundwater and could relieve agricultural water deficits through the diversification of irrigation sources and could be a more economical irrigation practice than groundwater irrigation under changing agricultural environments .

@highlight Key parameters in wastewater reuse in agriculture WWRA were identified.
@highlight Urbanization may reduce the demand for WWRA in urbanized watersheds.
@highlight Domestic water use has a significant impact on the economics of WWRA.
@highlight Possibility spaces from current decision making for WWRA were explored.
