 The sustainability of spate irrigated agriculture in a semi arid climate depends on efficient use of irrigation water . Thus efficient capture and storage of soil moisture in the field are crucial for sustained productivity . The main objective of this study is to examine the performance of improved field design strategies to manage variable irrigation water supply and application time in the Gash agricultural scheme in eastern Sudan where open end border irrigation is practiced to irrigate large fields with variable sizes that range from 250 to 1250ha . Irrigation performance was examined using the WinSRFR model for a large sized field continuously irrigated for 25 days but also under alternative designs and irrigation times . The performance was evaluated using efficiency adequacy and uniformity criteria . The results demonstrate that the current irrigation practices are quite inefficient but could be substantially improved by adopting alternative design and operational strategies . A vertical division of the field under the average inflow condition could result in a substantial increase in application efficiency distribution uniformity and irrigation adequacy . Additionally the fields could be irrigated in considerably less time when an alternate irrigation schedule between two equally divided fields is followed which indicated time savings of 40 under a high inflow rate scenario and a 20 reduction in time under an average inflow rate scenario . Therefore this modelling study has demonstrated a great potential to significantly improve irrigation performance by applying alternative field designs and operation strategies in the GAS . The modelling outcomes confirmed that the farmers indigenous experiment though without a scientific study on the vertical division of a large sized field is indeed successful in improving irrigation performance and could be adopted in other similar conditions .

@highlight Field dimension and application time substantially influence spate irrigation performance.
@highlight Performance is substantially improved by dividing into half the irrigation time and field width.
@highlight Farmers indigenous experiment proved successful in improving irrigation performance.
@highlight Improvements in performance is constraint during low flow conditions.
