 Efficiency is one of the most important assessment indicators in irrigation systems . Classical efficiency is not an exact index due to the lack of consideration of the return flows . Therefore the neoclassical concepts of the efficiency are considered to take a part of losses of irrigation water as a return flow into account . Quality of the return flows may change in their path and it must be considered in evaluating the efficiency and productivity of irrigation water . This research was carried out to investigate this challenge . Sustainable efficiency was applied based on the water balance and quality of return flows . The methodology and detail for computing different parameters and their quality and beneficial coefficients in water balance equation were presented . Moghan irrigation and drainage network in the northwest of Iran was selected as the study area and CE and SE were calculated in meso and micro levels using the meteorological data cropping pattern irrigation water volume natural and artificial drainages infiltration and return flow quality . In addition the irrigation water productivity was calculated by considering the volume of water based on the different concepts of efficiency . Quality coefficient related to return flow had different values in different months . The results showed that about 87 of inflow 91 of the rainfall 89 of the evapotranspiration 13 of the non reusable water and 91 of the return flow were useful in the study area . The highest and the lowest efficiencies are occurred in September and November respectively . The average of meso and micro Sefficiencies were 72 and 47.5 respectively and the CE was 37.9 . The results showed that water productivity based on the SE is more than that of the CE . The water productivity at the meso level also showed a higher value than at the micro level .

@highlight The methodology for computing parameters and their quality and beneficial coefficients in water balance equation were presented.
@highlight This methodology shows the trade off possibilities between different parameters of water balance and quality and beneficial coefficients of them.
@highlight Quality coefficient related to return flow had different values in different months due to the cropping pattern at the downstream.
@highlight Considering the assessment level of the efficiency in management decisions is very important. This suggests that the correct calculation of the efficiency in the region can affect management decisions.
