 Climate change has already and will continue to exert a vital impact on crop yield and water use in the North China Plain . Currently this plain is facing a dilemma between groundwater depletion and grain production demand . It is urgent to identify the impact of future climate change on crop yield and water consumption and then develop efficient adaptation strategies in the region . In this study we used statistically downscaled daily climate data from 33 global climate models and two Representative Concentration Pathways for 61 stations distributed across the NCP and drove the well validated APSIM model to simulate crop yield and water use for two future periods of 20312060 and 20712100 . Data from all 33 GCMs show an increase in annual mean temperature and almost all the GCMs also show increases in annual mean solar radiation and annual total precipitation across the NCP . Future climate warming led to an advance in phenology for both winter wheat and summer maize two typical crops in the NCP . However the length of the reproductive growth period of winter wheat was prolonged while that of summer maize was shortened under future climate scenarios across the NCP . Our simulated results show that future climate change had negative impacts on maize yield but positive impacts on wheat yield across the NCP . Mainly due to the shortening of the whole growth period crop water consumption was largely decreased under future climate scenarios . The amount of irrigation required was also reduced mainly due to increased precipitation and decreased ET . Although future climate change would likely mitigate groundwater overdraft in most part of NCP some areas in the northern NCP still had groundwater over pumping in the future . Therefore we suggest that it might be a good choice to change cropping system for reducing planting area of water consuming crop in those over pumping areas to balance groundwater use and crop yield .

@highlight Future climate warming led to advance in wheat and maize phenology.
@highlight Future climate change had negative impact on maize but positive impact on wheat.
@highlight Crop water consumption was largely decreased under future climate scenarios.
@highlight Future climate change could mitigate groundwater overdraft across NCP.
