 Analysis of drought on rain fed maize production in the Luvuvhu River Catchment was measured using the Water Requirement Satisfaction Index . Computation of WRSI was performed using a crop water balance model in Instat software for a 120 day maturing maize crop using nine different planting dekads from October to December . This study made use of seven weather stations which adequately represent climatic and geographical environments of the catchment containing historical rainfall and temperature data from 1974 to 2015 . The non parametric Spearmans Rank Correlation test was conducted to determine drought trends . Thereafter probabilities and extreme widespread dry and wet agricultural seasons were analysed using STATISTICA software . Results revealed that since the 1980s the catchment had been subjected to frequent drought conditions with an average frequency of once every two to three seasons . Extreme drought episodes were commonly identified in the northern drier parts of the catchment as compared to the high rainfall region whereby 50 93 of the analysed seasons were subjected to extreme drought conditions . Furthermore there were no drought trends during the analysed climate period . Water Requirements Satisfaction Index values corresponding to more intense drought conditions were reflected during the December planting date for all stations . Moreover at the low rainfall region it was seen that extreme droughts occurred once in five seasons regardless of the planting date . Thus the study led to a recommendation of using October November as the optimum planting date in the catchment . Furthermore farmers located areas with high probabilities of drought during critical stages can be advised to supplement rain fed farming with irrigation should they be located nearby to rivers .

@highlight Drought frequents the area every two to three seasons.
@highlight WRSI showed common water deficits from the 5
@highlight  12
@highlight dekad of the growing period.
@highlight WRSI reflected good crop performance at the high and moderate rainfall regions.
@highlight Total crop failure at low rainfall regions was due to intra seasonal water deficits.
