 In the Eastern Gangetic Plain of South Asia cropping systems under conventional crop management are frequently unprofitable due to the inefficient use of resources particularly irrigation water and energy . Across the Eastern Gangetic Plain farmers generally produce a wet season rice crop followed by an irrigated dry season crop maize has been recently introduced as the dry season crop and is rapidly growing in popularity . Irrigation water is commonly applied using diesel powered pumps and fluctuating fuel prices are a major factor affecting cropping system profitability . We hypothesised that the adoption of zero tillage crop establishment in a rice maize system would reduce irrigation requirements compared to a conventionally established rice maize system while maintaining comparable crop yields . Thus higher water use efficiency and economic profitability would be achieved under the improved crop management compared to conventional practice . Field experiments over two years in Sabour Bihar demonstrated that early sowing of maize resulted in 8 higher maize grain yields while zero tillage establishment produced 7 higher maize grain yields than conventionally established maize . Using the APSIM cropping systems model we tested our hypothesis over 49years from 1969 to 2018 . Over the longer term zero till maize grain yields were 9 higher than those of conventionally established crops . Under these improved management practices fuel savings of 815 and labor savings of 3443 were achieved compared to conventionally managed crops leading to higher water use efficiency in all treatments under improved management . Overall gross margins in rice maize systems under improved management practices were 2039 higher than rice maize systems under conventional management . In rice maize cropping systems in the Eastern Gangetic Plain improved crop management practices can improve the efficiency of water use and thus increase farming households profitability and incomes .

@highlight ZT uses less water reduces fuel costs in rice maize systems.
@highlight ZT increases maize yields and crop resilience to climate variability.
@highlight Irrigation frequency can be reduced with introduction of ZT for no yield loss.
@highlight Fewer irrigations increases gross margins and water use efficiency.
