 Meteorological and agricultural information coupled with remote sensing observations has been used to assess the effectiveness of satellite derived indices in yield estimations . The estimate yield models generated by both the regression and Bayesian network algorithms and their levels of predictive skill were assessed . The enhanced vegetation index soil water index standardized precipitation evaporation index have been considered predictors for three rainfed crops grown in 37 districts in the Republic of Moldova . We used the weekly EVI2 which was collected by MODIS instruments aboard the Terra satellite with a 250m250m spatial resolution and aggregated for each district during the 20002018 period . We also used the weekly SWI which was collected from the ASCAT instruments with a 12kmx12km spatial resolution and aggregated for each district at the topsoil and the root zone layer during 20002018 . The multiscalar SPEI during 19512018 farming years proved to be a significant addition to the remote sensing indices and led to the development of a model that improved the yield assessment . The study also summarized the optimal time window of satellite derived SWIi and EVI2i for yield estimation and the capability of remotely sensed indices for representing the spatiotemporal variations of agricultural droughts . We developed statistical soil vegetation atmosphere models to explore drought related yield losses . The skill scores of the sunflower MLR and BBN models were higher than those for the maize and grape models and were able to estimate yields with reasonable accuracy and predictive power . The accurate estimation of maize sunflower and grapevine yields was observed two months before the harvest . Despite the fact that summer crops are able to develop a root system that uses the entire root zone depth however the SWI 12 had the stronger correlation with crop yield then SWI 14 . This explains much better the fit between yields of the crops and SWI 12 which represents soil moisture anomaly in the key rooting layer of soil . In any case all summer crops showed negative correlations with each of the remote sensing soil moisture indices in the early and middle of the growing season with SWI 12 performing better than SWI 14 . Based on the crop specific soil moisture model we found that topsoil moisture declines in the most drought susceptible crop growth stages which indicates that RM is a good candidate for studying drought persists as main driver of rainfed yield losses in the south eastern Europe .

@highlight We used soil moisture and vegetation remote sensing indices and the SPEI climate based drought index as yield predictors.
@highlight We assessed the effectiveness of the satellite derived indices in the yield predictions.
@highlight We compared the predictive skill of the regression and Bayesian network models.
@highlight We developed statistical soil vegetation atmosphere models to explore drought related yield losses.
@highlight The adjusted satellite derived EVI2 was found to be the better predictor.
