 Considerable spatial variability in soil hydraulic properties exists within a field even in those considered homogeneous . Spatial variability of water as a major driver of crop heterogeneity gains particular relevance within the context of precision agriculture but modelling has devoted insufficient efforts to scale up from point to field the associated cause effect relations of water spatial variations . Seven crop simulation models and five hydrologic models were selected and their water modelling approaches were systematically reviewed for comparison . Crop models rely mainly on discrete and empirical approaches for modelling soil water movement while hydrologic models emphasize more continuous and mechanistic ones . Combining both types of models may not be the best way forward as none of the models consider all of the processes which are relevant for the simulation of spatial variations . Hydrologic models pay more attention to spatially variable water processes than crop simulation models although their focus is on scales higher than the field which is the relevant scale for assessing the influence of such variations on crop behaviour . Opportunities for progress in the spatial simulation of water processes at field level will probably come from two different directions . One implying a stronger synergism between both model families by using continuous type approaches to simulate some mechanisms in existing crop models and the other through the integration of lateral flows in the simulation of discrete water movement approaches .

@highlight Scaling up point based simulation modelling is a challenge due to the heterogeneity of water related processes and it is essential for many applications in precision agriculture.
@highlight Seven crop simulation models and five hydrologic models were selected and their water modelling approaches were systematically reviewed for comparison. Regarding spatial modelling of water at crop field level our analysis indicates that there is scope for conceptual improvements but that combining both types of models may not be the best way forward.
@highlight The most promising advances are related to the incorporation of surface inflow and subsurface lateral flows by using differential equations or through novel water spatial partitioning relations to use in discrete type approaches.
