 The managements of fertilization and surface mulching in apple orchards have both potential positive environmental and productive effects due to their benefits of water infiltration and soil nitrate movement in field ecosystem . However the research to date had tended to focus on single measure rather than both together . The aims of this study were to determine how integrated management for apple orchards influenced spatial and temporal changes of soil water content and soil water storage illustrate the effects on reducing soil nitrate accumulation and promoting N uptake determine the impacts of water use efficiency and apple yield . We applied three treatments for demonstration contrast experiments traditional farming measure existing management measure and optimized management measure . We found that the SWC in 3m soil layers was influenced by the tree growth period the clearly benefits of OM to invariably increase SWS in 3m soil layer were observed in different period especially in dry year . During the tree growth the OM treatment significantly increased rainwater retention in deep soil and received a maximum value of SWS in 3m soil layers . Apple yield was significantly enhanced in OM but the water consumption in each treatment had no obvious difference and consequently WUE was elevated compared with EM and FM . The SNA after the apple harvest was significantly decreased under the OM especially in 23m soil depth . Meanwhile total N in fruits and leaves in OM were significant higher than FM indicating that the risk of N leaching was reduced and the N was effectively used by trees . Regression relationships between SNA and SWS were significantly negative in the dry year means that the OM would perform better in mitigating soil desiccation and soil nitrate leaching in dry climatic condition . This study highlights integrated soil management is a considerable practice for apple orchards in Loess Plateau and the rain fed area around the world .

@highlight Apple yields and WUE were significantly increased by integrated soil management.
@highlight Integrated soil management significantly promoted soil water infiltration.
@highlight The risk of N leaching was significantly reduced by integrated soil management.
@highlight N uptake by fruits leaves and NUE
@highlight were enhanced by integrated soil management.
@highlight The soil nitrate accumulation was affected by soil water storage in dry year.
