 Bats frequently use caves as roosts due to higher environmental stability and protection . However species specific ecological and physiological requirements and conditions of roosts and their surroundings can influence species presence . Little is known on cave choice by bats in the Neotropics a species and cave rich region . Understanding how bats cave characteristics and the surrounding landscape are related with each other helps the management and conservation of bats and caves . Based on sampling 19 caves using both diurnal observations and captures we tested whether bat richness was positively related to cave temperature humidity size stability and heterogeneity of microhabitats and the preservation and heterogeneity of the surrounding landscape in central Brazil whether cave and landscape characteristics influenced on species composition how species responded to cave and landscape variables and whether these relationships changed between seasons . Temperature was a limiting factor whereas environmental stability humidity and structural attributes of caves favored the occurrence of more species . Larger caves rich in microhabitats but more stable than the external environment supported more species especially in the dry season . Landscape context did not influence species richness and composition in the caves but the percentage of vegetation around caves was important for certain species . Our results highlight the influence of environmental variables in the process of cave selection by Neotropical bat species . Moreover we emphasize the importance of cave protection for bats and provide useful information for decision making in processes of environmental licensing .

@highlight Cave temperature is a limiting factor for several bat species.
@highlight Environmental stability humidity and cave structure influence species occurrence.
@highlight Larger but more stable microhabitat rich caves harbor more species.
@highlight Landscape context did not affect species richness and composition.
@highlight Vegetation cover around caves is important for some species.
