 Herbaceous boundaries adjacent to arable fields can deliver ecosystem services not sufficiently provided at the field scale as well as disservices such as increased weed pressure . The levels of services and disservices depend on the management regime implemented in these boundaries . Our study was conducted in Western France where herbaceous boundaries of many arable fields constitute the road verge and various mowing regimes were tested for conservation purposes . Until now most studies of the influence of mowing regimes focused on one taxonomic group and documented contrasting results depending on the environmental context . This study aimed to compare the influence of two mowing regimes on road verges by evaluating different taxonomic groups that could potentially deliver services or disservices to adjacent arable fields . The mowing regimes used were a standard and an agro environmental regime the latter being characterized by one late mowing a high mowing height and biomass removal . We monitored during two consecutive years seven road verges and their adjacent arable fields . Each road verge was divided into two zones of equal length characterized by a different mowing regime . Communities of plants flower visiting insects and ground beetles were sampled in herbaceous boundaries and or arable fields in the period between the mass flowering of oilseed rape and sunflower crops . In zones where the agro environmental mowing regime had been implemented the average number of inflorescences and flower visiting insects within boundaries were higher than under the standard mowing regime . However between the two mowing regimes no differences in weed cover within arable fields and the average number of ground beetles within boundaries and arable fields were observed . To conclude our study suggests that in our particular environmental context an agro environmental mowing regime could promote pollination in adjacent arable fields without increasing weed pressure within the field .

@highlight We established field boundaries with late mowing and high mowing heights.
@highlight This practice increased the numbers of inflorescences and pollinators.
@highlight The mowing regime did not influence the average weed cover in wheat fields.
@highlight The mowing regime did not influence the number of ground beetles.
