 Public and private hospitals are seen to co exist in several countries and they have different levels of service waiting times and prices . Public hospitals in general are cheaper but more crowded and offer lower quality service than private ones while private ones are underutilized because of the higher payments required for their services . These differences among hospitals affect patients choices in hospital selection and result in different levels of satisfaction in the community . Appropriate subsidy mechanisms can be developed to balance the capacity utilization of both sectors and to improve overall access to healthcare . The objective of this study is to develop an estimate of the magnitude of this improvement and differential effectiveness of various policies in achieving this improvement . For this purpose we develop a simulation model that includes all the emergency departments of main public and private hospitals in a certain region of Turkey . We analyze the effects of different public policies on patients preferences regarding hospital choices and the results of these choices on social utility and public healthcare spending . Different capacity decisions contracting and subsidy mechanisms are proposed and the optimal system parameters are determined under these mechanisms over this simulation model . After the validation and verification of the simulation model several scenarios are designed and executed to increase social utility decrease government expenses improve patient satisfaction level and decrease waiting times . We compare the proposed scenarios based on multiple objective functions and present numerical results for different scenarios in this system .

@highlight A simulation model of multiple emergency services in a region are developed.
@highlight Patient preferences and hospital selection decisions are investigated.
@highlight Public policies considering capacity and pricing decisions are analyzed.
@highlight Numerical experiments are utilized to compare different scenarios.
@highlight Differentiated pricing strategy improves social utility significantly.
