 Entrepreneurial ecosystems represent an active and growing area of research . Recognized as a contributor to foster regional competitiveness by stimulating economic growth and promoting innovativeness interest in the concept spans across disciplines . Despite evolving and inter disciplinary discussions on entrepreneurial ecosystems a comprehensive understanding of the research directions and latest developments in the field is elusive . At the same time a clear understanding of the current lay of the land is necessary to assist in public sector decision making and policy development . To address this gap this bibliometric study presents a bibliographic analysis of extant literature in the field as referenced as the focal topic of concern in academic journal articles spanning 19952019 . The aim is to provide an overview of the origins of the entrepreneurial ecosystems concept in literature to offer insight into key concepts that have emerged in research over the past twenty five years . The paper employs bibliographic techniques to track knowledge identify trends and highlight the primary emerging patterns and conceptual clusters . The analysis offers a map of the covered territory and facilitates the identification of gaps and under researched areas in the field with a particular focus on public sector interaction . Using the visualization of similarities VOSviewer software tool citation co citation co authorship as well as the co occurrence of keywords are presented to offer a comparative overview of the diverse representation of entrepreneurial ecosystems developments across disciplines countries institutional clusters networks and teams .

@highlight Entrepreneurial ecosystems research with an emphasis on the public sector is charted using bibliographic analysis.
@highlight Using VOSviewer network maps comparatively display diverse entrepreneurial ecosystems developments across the literature.
@highlight Innovation entrepreneurship performance and knowledge are key areas of interest in entrepreneurial ecosystems literature.
@highlight Public policy and accompanying operative networks are salient themes in public sector entrepreneurial ecosystems studies.
