 This paper provides a method for the real time monitoring of job stress in emergency department physicians . It is implemented in a Decision Support System designed for patient to physician assignment after triage . Our concept of job stress includes not only the workload but also time pressure and uncertainty . A job stress function is estimated based on the consensus views of ED physicians obtained through a novel methodology involving stress factor analysis questionnaire design and the statistical analysis of expert opinions . The resulting stress score enables the assessment of job stress using workload data from the ED physicians whiteboard . These data can be used for the real time measurement and monitoring of ED physician job stress in a stochastic and dynamic environment which is the main novelty of this method as compared to previous workload and stress measurement proposals . A further advantage of this methodology is that it is general enough to be adapted to physician job stress monitoring in any ED . The use of the DSS for ED patient flow management reduces job stress and spreads it more evenly among the whole team of physicians while also improving other important ED performance measures such as arrival to provider time and the percentage of compliance with patient waiting time targets . A case study illustrates the application of the methodology for the construction of a stress score the monitoring of physician stress levels and ED patient flow management .

@highlight A novel method for real time monitoring of physician stress in ED is provided.
@highlight Job stress monitoring uses data from the ED whiteboard and accounts for the workload the time pressure and the uncertainty.
@highlight A case study illustrates the construction of a stress score monitoring of physician stress and ED patient flow management.
@highlight Based on this method a DSS to manage the ED patient flow is developed it improves patient related ED performance measures.
@highlight The new proposed patient physician assignment rule reduces and balances the job stress among the whole team of physicians.
