 Entrepreneurship policies are now widely spread among the general policy agenda in most of the countries . In particular emerging countries started to focus on startups and young firms as potential engines of economic growth and structural transformation . Therefore several governments from these countries are devoting significant efforts to develop their entrepreneurial ecosystems and promote the emergence of new dynamic firms . However data on entrepreneurship in these countries is scarce leaving policymakers without a clear evidence based platform for designing their policies and programs . This paper tries to contribute to this task in two manners . First it presents a systemic conceptual approach to guide the design of entrepreneurship policies that explicitly includes the structural factors acting act as barriers in less developed contexts . Secondly Based on the information from the IDE this study advances into the characterization of six different configurations of systemic conditions three of which include emerging countries analyzing their main strengths and weaknesses . Hence this article provides a new evidence based platform to identify and discuss the heterogeneity among ecosystems in emerging countries and suggests several policy recommendations for those governments that want to implement new entrepreneurship policies . At the same time they introduce to the literature new concepts such as systemic balance and dual ecosystems which serve to characterize most of the observed configurations of systemic conditions for entrepreneurship in less developed regions . All in all the results of this study would serve to guide policymakers to formulate their policies in a more contextualized framework .

@highlight Emerging countries focus on startups as engines of economic growth and structural change.
@highlight Policymakers in these countries have not a clear evidence based platform for their policies.
@highlight A systemic conceptual model including structural restrictions is presented and tested.
@highlight High level of heterogeneity among entrepreneurship conditions emerging countries.
@highlight Emerging countries systemic conditions are mostly dual ecosystems.
