 We propose an emergency facility locating model aimed at increasing the coverage of emergency demand throughout the city . The proposed model takes into account the status and location of the emergency facilities in the network and identifies locations suitable for the construction of new facilities . Here Data Envelopment Analysis and Maximum Coverage Location Problem have been combined in a single model . To do so design problem and evaluation problem are considered concurrently to maximize the efficiency of services provided by emergency facilities across the city in response to the demand . Moreover the total emergency demand in each district was considered in relation to the population density the fatal injurious and property damage only crashes . The coverage area of each emergency facility was assumed to be proportional to the average ambulance speed in the surrounding road network during rush hours . The available budget was included in the model to let the model function under various fiscal conditions . Model input variables consisted of average number of mortalities injuries and PDO crashes as well as the population density of each urban district . The output variables of the model included the coverage share of proposed emergency centers and hospitals equipped with ambulances . The model was tested on the network of Tehran . It is recommended to add the location of some emergency centers and hospitals to the network . Moreover the results showed that ten urban districts had efficiency problem in provision of emergency services .

@highlight The model considers the location of the existing emergency facilities in the network and locates new facilities.
@highlight Presented model is an integrated model of data envelopment analysis and maximum coverage location problem.
@highlight The model is applied on a real network with 22 regions and two different facilities.
@highlight Considering a specific ambulance speed for each region based on the observed average traffic flow in the region s links.
@highlight The proposed model considers both population and accident demands in various regions of a city.
