 This paper develops a framework to locate critical infrastructure facilities to most fully capitalize on the supporting stations they depend on for normal operation . CI facilities include health services transportation and electricity agencies that impact the national economy security and the public s health and wellbeing . SSs are facilities that provide essential services for the regular operation of a CI . For instance the power service communication services and water supply services are SSs for Hospitals . In this paper SSs are independent from the CIs that they service and have a heterogeneous probability of failure that will cripple the dependent CI . The proposed framework ranks the SS according to its cost of providing service such that the rank 1 SS is the primary service provider and incorporates the probability of failure for the SS . The CI will be served from secondary SS if the primary fails due to a disaster . This formulation insures the continuous service to the CI from SS and determines both the optimal location of the CI and the optimal number of demands served . A mixed integer linear programming approach is applied to develop a Reliable Facility Location Problem considering Supporting Stations to identify the optimal location to build a critical facility . In addition to that The RFLP SS determines the capacity of the optimally located facility and its allocated demands . This research highlights the importance of considering dependencies among the SSs that service CI . The paper presents a case study in Puerto Rico to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed framework . The case study investigates the status of health services in Puerto Rico and identifies the optimal locations to establish new hospitals . The paper recommends 11 locations for new hospitals so that the people of Puerto Rico will be better served than they are currently .

@highlight Paper develops a framework for facility location considering supporting stations.
@highlight A MILP math model for facility location of critical infrastructure is used.
@highlight Model determines optimal number of facilities and connections to supporting stations.
@highlight Model is applied to the case study of locating hospitals in Puerto Rico.
@highlight Sensitivity analyses show the importance of both supporting stations and capacity considerations.
