 Improving the quality of education is one of the main objectives for governments given that it plays an essential role in providing well being to the population . In this regard the efficiency of teachers may be a key issue to improve the students academic performance and learning achievement . Specifically in this paper we analyse the efficiency of teachers from a multi criteria optimization perspective . The purpose is to detect the most efficient teachers to gain knowledge about the characteristics of their teaching context which contribute to increase the education performance of the students . To this aim data from TIMSS and PIRLS 2011 for fourth grade reading mathematics and science teachers in Spain have been used . Three synthetic indexes gathering these data are calculated a weak index allowing full compensation among the variables a strong index informing about the worst variable value and a synthetic index representing a different degree of compensation of the two formers . These indexes are built using aspiration and reservation levels for each variable . This allows us to include desirable ranges of values to be achieved by the variables in the study of the teachers efficiency . With this it is possible to know if the teachers are performing better within or worse than the desired limits and to rank the teachers according to their efficiency . The analysis carried out has contributed to have a better understanding of the policies to be followed in order to promote efficiency in teaching .

@highlight Our study examines the efficiency of teachers as a key issue to improve students academic performance.
@highlight Data from TIMSS and PIRLS 2011 for 4th grade reading mathematics and science teachers in Spain is used.
@highlight Three synthetic indexes are built using multi criteria optimization techniques.
@highlight These indexes are based on the double reference point scheme and allow different compensation degrees among the variables.
@highlight Particularly significant conclusions are extracted from the efficiency ranking of the teachers.
