 This paper aims to measure the evolution of destocking performance of the Chinese Real Estate Industry based on a DEA Malmquist approach which is seldom used in this industry in existing literature . In 2016 the Chinese government introduced a unified national destocking policy to reduce real estate inventory to save the downturn in the real estate market but the effect was less than expected and led to soaring house prices in first tier cities . By analysing the destocking performance over the period from 2005 to 2015 we find the following It is impossible to use a unified policy to effectively address the national destocking issue because of the difference of DMUs destocking efficiency input redundancy and total factor productivity score changes . With the current destocking performance and investment status the government is still ignoring the existing commercial real estate problems . The redundancy of firm assets and staff indicates that zombie firms may exist and risk future unemployment in the real estate industry . Despite the recently repeated government interventions in this industry destocking performance remains falling since 2008 and problems in other regions is more severe than in central cities . The financial crisis triggered by the US subprime mortgage crisis has had a great impact on China s real estate industry . The destocking performance dropped sharply in 2008 forcing the Chinese government to introduce policies to stimulate the real estate market . Policy recommendations are also put forward based on the findings .

@highlight This paper aims to measure the evolution of destocking performance of the Chinese Real Estate Industry based on a DEA Malmquist approach.
@highlight By analysing the destocking performance over the period from 2005 to 2015 we have several important findings which are useful for policymaking in Chinese real estate industry.
@highlight Based on the above findings policy recommendations are also put forward forpolicy makers.
