 Residential mobility is a key dimension of population dynamics shaping urban growth and rural development at different spatio temporal scales . Assuming spatial mobility as increasingly dependent on the intrinsic characteristics of local contexts the present study investigates long term and short term population movements in a European country in light of regional urbanization processes and socioeconomic development . A multidimensional analysis of indicators of residential stability and background variables was carried out with the aim at evaluating the influence of local contexts on more general processes of population mobility . Different typologies of spatial mobility associated to factors dependent on demographic dynamics economic performances and urban cycles were identified . The empirical findings of this study evidence paths of internal migration and a latent process of population relocation across metropolitan regions together with more recent international migrations at both working and retirement age . While short range population movements were the ultimate result of late suburbanization in Greece medium and broad range mobility consolidated the country s divide in urban and rural areas evidencing the attractive role of Athens . Spatial direction and intensity of population movements reflect complex socioeconomic transformations whose knowledge provides innovative visions for a better understanding of future demographic dynamics in Mediterranean Europe .

@highlight Spatial mobility is a key dimension of population dynamics.
@highlight Spatial mobility is increasingly dependent on the intrinsic characteristics of local contexts.
@highlight New census based indicators of long and short term population movements were proposed.
@highlight Nine typologies of spatial mobility associated to specific socioeconomic factors were identified.
@highlight The socioeconomic profile of local districts influences spatial direction and intensity of population movements.
