 The evaluation of university efficiency in Europe began timidly when the European Higher Education Area was created . However this issue is currently becoming increasingly important in Southern European countries where the limitation of public funding following the economic crisis in 2008 has put greater pressure on their public universities to achieve excellence and improve competitiveness . In this context the goals of this paper are first to measure the relative technical efficiency of Spanish public Higher Education Institutions in the period 200203 to 201213 comparing the situation before and during the last economic crisis and second to analyze the determinants of university efficiency and especially the direct impact of the crisis . After applying the two stage double bootstrap DEA methodology the results show that Spanish public universities have become more efficient during the crisis than before it . In fact the regression analysis confirms that the crisis variable has had a statistically significant positive impact on university efficiency . We also find that age has favorably influenced how these institutions utilize their resources to produce teaching and research outputs but technical specialization has had a negative effect . Moreover the regional location of public universities has been also a crucial determinant of their efficiency level . Our findings are therefore relevant for political and academic decision makers in order to know if public universities have been adequately managed in the crisis period and to identify factors that could improve their efficiency and hence to help them to enhance their international competitiveness in the future .

@highlight There was considerable inefficiency in Spanish public HEIs between the 200203 and 2012 13 academic years.
@highlight In spite of budgetary restrictions following the 2008 economic crisis Spanish public HEIs generated higher efficiency levels during this stage of uncertainty than before it.
@highlight The efficiency of Spanish public HEIs depends on their age specialization and regional location.
@highlight The recent crisis influenced positively and significantly university efficiency leading to a more rational management of the production processes of Spanish public HEIs.
