 As significant strategic players in China s economy high tech industries need to evaluate and analyze the technological innovation activities from a system point of view to understand and improve their technological innovation efficiency and thereby promote their development . Different high tech industries have different characteristics and thus benefit from different industrial development policies . However few studies to date have discussed this issue from a systematic perspective . In this study technological innovation activities are divided into a research and development stage and a commercialization stage . A high tech industrial evaluation framework of technological innovation efficiency based on two stage network data envelopment analysis is constructed with shared inputs additional intermediate inputs and free intermediate outputs . Our empirical results indicate that the overall efficiency of most industries is relatively low and the differences between the five high tech industries we examined are large . The Spearman correlation shows that overall efficiency and R D efficiency are more correlated than overall efficiency and commercialization efficiency . Additionally R D has better average efficiency . The sub sector with the highest average efficiency is computers and office equipment and the one with the lowest average efficiency is medicines . These findings indicate the inadequacy but potential for breakthroughs in the evolution of high tech industries in China . The analysis proves that it is necessary to create different industrial policies to encourage effective progress in certain high tech industries and some guidelines for doing so are provided .

@highlight Assessment framework of the technological innovation efficiency of China s high tech industries is developed.
@highlight A two stage network data envelopment analysis approach is used in this paper.
@highlight Significant findings can be obtained from empirical evidence.
@highlight Several policy suggestions are proposed for China s high tech industries.
