 The devastating impacts of natural hazards including loss of lives and properties underline the importance of efficient hazard preparedness especially in the areas with frequent hazard occurrence . Several studies indicated that driving during emergency evacuation is quite challenging due to dense traffic flow inclement weather conditions and unexpected maneuvers of other evacuees . However limited research has been directed towards assessing the perceived driving difficulties of individuals including vulnerable population under emergency evacuation . This study deploys a driving simulator in order to emulate realistic emergency evacuation scenarios and to quantify the perceived driving difficulties of individuals under emergency evacuation . Based on the data collected using a driving simulator a number of statistical models are proposed to determine a set of performance indicators including the mental demand physical demand temporal demand performance effort and frustration experienced by individuals as a result of emergency evacuation . The statistical models also capture a variety of different driver characteristics traffic characteristics driving conditions and evacuation route characteristics . The analysis results suggest that the considered performance indicators are significantly influenced with a number of factors including age gender education race presence of chronic diseases and self reported driving ability . The insights from the conducted research can be applied at the hazard preparedness stage to mitigate the perceived driving difficulties of individuals under emergency evacuation and ensure their safety .

@highlight The perceived driving difficulties of evacuees are assessed.
@highlight Various emergency evacuation scenarios are considered.
@highlight The scenarios are modeled using a driving simulator.
@highlight The driving simulator data are used to develop statistical models.
@highlight Important insights are presented using the statistical models.
