 This article explores linkages between organisation specific cultural narratives and gender equality programme planning through the lens of the historicity concept . The article argues that to fully understand problem definitions programme design and organisational change processes related to gender equality scholars and practitioners can not focus one sidedly on expected outcomes and effects we must also factor in cultural narratives because gender equality actors never arrive at their work as tabulae rasae . A community of actors always draws on shared dispositions that give sense direction and shape to their anticipations of the future hereby guiding their actions in the present . Based on an ethnography of a multinational engineering company the article shows how cultural narratives may serve in different ways as support factors for gender equality programme planning and implementation if they are actively but mindfully engaged . This mindfulness is important as positive cultural narratives may entail problematic gender dimensions . On the other hand negative cultural narratives may entail important learning outcomes that may benefit future gender equality initiatives . The analysis further points to the centrality of strategic communication leadership commitment and comprehensive evaluation in order to mobilise the potential of cultural narratives as support factors to gender equality work . Finally this article offers a rich example to scholars and practitioners of how to employ cultural analysis in relation to gender equality activities and demonstrates the value of the insights produced by this analysis for the case company and its gender equality programme .

@highlight Cultural narratives may serve as support factors for gender equality work.
@highlight History shapes present gender equality work and imagined future outcomes.
@highlight Mobilising cultural narratives as support factors requires communication commitment and evaluation.
@highlight Positive cultural narratives may entail problematic gender dimensions.
@highlight Negative cultural narratives may entail important learning outcomes.
