 The article presents a mixed methods evaluation of regional libraries in Namibia which incorporates three perspectives the patron perspective the library perspective and the external perspective . Seven data collection methods were used patron surveys patron panel studies focus group discussions key informant and staff interviews secondary data analysis media analysis and observations . The goal of the evaluation was to assess library performance for both formative and summative purposes by addressing evaluation questions on areas such as library services use and operations . Building upon the literature review of how mixed methods approaches can contribute to library evaluation the aim of this article is to show how a mixed methods evaluation can be designed to examine multi faceted library performance and to illustrate how the evaluation design allows information complementarity and can be utilized to present diverse viewpoints of the above three perspectives . The evaluation design analysis process and lessons learned from this study may be useful to evaluators engaged in evaluation of public services or programs that examine multiple aspects of service performance and involve a variety of stakeholders .

@highlight We present a mixed methods evaluation of regional libraries in Namibia which incorporates the patron library and external perspectives.
@highlight We describe how data collection methods representing different perspectives were used and how the data were integrated.
@highlight The article illustrates how a mixed methods evaluation can be designed to examine multi faceted library performance.
@highlight The evaluation design also allows providing complementary information of different stakeholders views.
@highlight The evaluation design analysis process and lessons learned from this study may be useful to evaluators engaged in evaluation of public services or programs that examine multiple aspects of service performance and involve a variety of stakeholders.
