 In this article we discuss the development of a conceptual evaluation framework to design and assess gender equality interventions and their effects in research and innovation . The conceptual framework presented herewith embraces the complexity gender sensitive and theory based evaluation approaches ensuring that design and evaluation of gender equality interventions consider the complex systems that constitute the context in which the interventions operate . The evaluation framework offers a non linear concept where the notion of contribution not attribution to achieve impact is central to the integration of team organizational and system factors in policy design and evaluation . The paper opens the black box to address the question of how and why a policy intervention works and in which context and discusses a systematic process on how to approach the interwoven linkages between input implementation and effects in gender equality interventions in research and innovation accounting for context sensitivity and methodological pluralism . The evaluation framework may serve as reference for researchers evaluators policymakers and other stakeholders in designing and assessing gender equality interventions and in further developing their evidence and theoretical and methodological base .

@highlight The article discusses the development of a conceptual evaluation framework to design and assess GE interventions and their effects in R I.
@highlight The framework embraces the complexity gender sensitive and theory based evaluation approaches ensuring that evaluation of GE interventions considers the contextual factors.
@highlight The framework offers a non linear concept where contribution not attribution to achieve impact is central to the policy design and evaluation.
@highlight The paper opens the black box to address the question of how and why a policy intervention works and in which context accounting for methodological pluralism.
@highlight The framework may serve as reference for researchers evaluators and policymakers in designing and assessing gender equality interventions.
