 The Hospital Pharmacy of a Local Health Unit in greater Oporto plays a major role in the community . In addition to providing medicines to the entire Internal Unit it has created a service called Hospital Ambulatory Pharmacy which allows continued hospital treatments at home in a more comfortable and familiar environment . This is mostly due uderfunding which has hindered recruitment of health professionals as well a growing concern for the comfort of patients as they convalesce . The Hospital Ambulatory Pharmacys main problems are both recurring stock outs and over stocks the fact that mediciness delivery routes are not completed and that medical staff lacks awareness of the techniques to overcome the logistic issues involved . As a methodology a context analysis was carried out KPI s were created to quantify the problems and raise health professionals awareness of what was happening . Solutions for storage were analysed and visits were made to a central hospital to analyse the solutions adopted to solve the same problems . The most appropriate inventory management policies were considered for the organization of existing and further resources . We chose to create an Advanced Warehouse with Level Replenishment . The levels were defined considering the demand of each medicine and divided into three different classes to use the best strategy for each type of demand . Then and with the help of the LHU IT team the inventory management module of the information system was parameterized so stock replenishment could be done electronically . All these changes resulted in a 30 reduction in stock out . At the beginning of the study stock outs would reach peaks of 6 . These were reduced to 4.5 at a point at which professionals were already more aware of the logistic problem and finally to 1.5 in the final phase at a time when the proposal had already been implemented . Over stock was reduced by 66 . Delivery routes were stipulated and compliance was verified . A novel service developed to increase the well being of patients monitored at home which it is intended to improve the service provided to the users and at the same time reduce operational costs .

@highlight KPI s were created to quantify the problems in the Hospital Ambulatory Pharmacys.
@highlight Solutions for storage were analysed and solutions adopted to solve problems.
@highlight An Advanced Warehouse with Level Replenishment was created.
@highlight The inventory management module of the information system was parameterized.
@highlight Over stock was reduced by 66 and delivery routes were stipulated.
