 The health impact assessment is a tool used to estimate the potential impact on health of non health related proposals prior to implementation . While it is increasingly used in Quebec Canada studies have not analyzed its medium term impacts and potential long term impacts . We conducted a contribution analysis using in depth interviews with key stakeholders as well as documents observation and images related to HIA in order to analyze its impacts on the revitalization of road infrastructure parks and green spaces and residential housing . Our analysis not only reflects on the decision making process through the adoption and implementation of HIA recommendations but also on the link between actions implemented in the field and health outcomes . Lvaluation dimpact sur la sant estime limpact potentiel sur la sant des actions hors du champ de la sant avant leur implantation . Bien quelle soit de plus en plus utilise au Canada en particulier au Qubec les tudes nont pas analys ses impacts intermdiaires et ses effets potentiels long terme . Nous avons appliqu lanalyse de contribution laide dentretiens approfondis avec les principales parties prenantes les documents lobservation et les images lies lIS pour analyser ses effets sur la revitalisation des infrastructures routires des parcs et espaces verts et des logements rsidentiels . Lanalyse des effets de lvaluation dimpact sur la sant porte davantage sur le processus dcisionnel en rapport ladoption et limplantation des recommandations issues de lIS mais aussi sur le lien entre les actions mises en uvre sur le terrain et les rsultats en matire de sant .

@highlight HIA acts in synergy with other policies or plans at the local level to foster actions favorable to health.
@highlight HIA advances the creation of a favorable built environment conducive to health.
@highlight HIA implementation cost is a hindrance for small cities operating with limited resources.
@highlight HIA core principles should be incorporated into strategic urban development plans to insure its sustainability.
@highlight HIA excluding equity considerations may increase the risks of increasing health inequalities.
