 Despite decades of efforts to achieve gender equality in research and innovation all EU member states still face remarkable difficulties in driving forward the development of their innovation system while at the same time improving gender equality by using all the available research potential . In this paper we focus on the development of the share of women researchers in four national innovation systems i.e . in Austria Denmark Hungary and Spain in the time period 2005 2015 . The four selected cases represent countries with significant differences in their innovation capacity gender regimes and progress of gender equality in R I . A qualitative comparative analysis is carried out to conduct a sector program evaluation based on statistical data and qualitative studies to understand the dynamic development of the proportion of women researchers . The study aims to provide insights into the aggregated gender equality interventions and policies implemented in the four countries studied and their contributions to the development of the proportion of women scientists at the structural level . The analysis reveals that the development of the share of women researchers during the studied period has been particularly influenced by contextual factors namely the relative size of the business enterprise sector and the share of women among holders of tertiary education . While this is the case it is found that gender equality interventions need to be more widespread and more effectively designed to be a strong contributing factor to an increasing representation of women in R I .

@highlight GE policies in R I are not sufficient to explain changes in share of women researchers.
@highlight Share of women among holders of higher education is a key driver.
@highlight Development of the size of business enterprise sector is key to understand variations.
@highlight Decrease of share of women among researchs in Hungary is due to rise of manufacturing.
@highlight Within the group of compared countries Austria had the most progressive GE policy for R I.
