 The Singapore Physical Activity and Nutrition Study aimed to improve the physical activity and nutrition behaviours of Singaporean women aged 50 years and over . The SPANS program consisted of PA classes nutrition workshops telephone dietary counselling health booklets a health calendar and program ambassadors . This study aimed to assess and understand the implementation of the program strategies and gain insight into process evaluation components to inform future programs . The evaluation was guided by a process evaluation framework and collected data via questionnaires program ambassador documentation and exit interviews with program completers and non completers . In total 295 participants completed the program . Participants reported high levels of satisfaction with the overall program and program activities and also rated program ambassadors highly . Participation rates were highest for telephone dietary counselling sessions . The main reason for not attending program activities was having a busy schedule . Participants cited a need for improved recreational centre facilities and increased flexibility around program delivery . The process evaluation showed that the program strategies were implemented as planned and were deemed suitable for supporting behaviour change among Singaporean women aged 50 years and over . The program reached and involved the majority of participants throughout the six months . The combination of practical educational resources and supportive program ambassadors were key strategies that facilitated positive PA and dietary behaviours . However there needs to be some flexibility in the delivery of programs . The findings of this research may inform other programs in the region .

@highlight This is the first physical activity and nutrition program for women aged 50 years and over to be implemented and comprehensively evaluated in Singapore s recreational centres.
@highlight Singapore s recreational centres are an appropriate venue to implement lifestyle programs to reach older women.
@highlight Practical educational resources tailored education sessions and motivational support from trained program ambassadors supported physical activity and dietary behaviour change.
@highlight Telephone dietary counselling recorded the highest participation rate emphasising the suitability of this strategy for this target group.
@highlight Ongoing feedback and recommendations from participants and program ambassadors such as flexibility in program scheduling can assist in the development of more suitable programs.
