 Since the latter part of 2018 the federal funds rate has been equal to or nearly equal to the interest rate on excess reserves . Correspondingly the Fed has expressed a desire for increased interbank lending within its target range for the federal funds rate . This paper examines these developments within a model of bank behavior . We argue that the resulting spread between the federal funds rate and IOER during this time led banks to switch to a third regime different from the zero excess reserves regime of pre October 2008 or the zero wholesale loan regime of post October 2008 up to the period described above . Comparative statics results from general equilibrium solutions show that within this third regime in which banks choose positive quantities of excess reserves and wholesale loans banks exhibit the strongest response in retail lending to changes in the federal funds rate and the IOER . This regime though also has the weakest response in retail lending to a quantitative easing type policy . Extending the model to the interbank loan market reveals that in the interior solution regime even when faced with large increases in exogenous loan demand banks borrow from the interbank loan market only under restrictive conditions . Taken with previous findings we argue that monetary policy can include the Fed choosing the federal funds rate IOER spread to determine the regime within which it desires for banks to operate . In this regard we offer a sketch of how the Fed can utilize monetary policy strategically to stabilize the macroeconomy during the next recession .

@highlight Beginning in October 2018 the federal funds rate has been nearly equal to the interest rate on excess reserves IOER .
@highlight This development implies that bank choose positive excess reserves and engage in interbank lending.
@highlight Banks respond differently to exogenous changes than either pre October 2008 or the previous decade.
@highlight Retail loans exhibit a stronger response to interest rate changes but a weaker response to quantitative easing.
@highlight With the federal funds rate IOER spread the Fed can help to determine the effectiveness of its policy moves.
