 This essay applies the ultimate broadening of the concept of marketing for designing and implementing interventions in public laws and policy national and local regulations and everyday lives of individuals . The ultimate broadening of the concept of marketing Marketing is any activity message emotion or behavior by someone firm organization government community or brand executed consciously or nonconsciously that may stimulate an observable or non observable activity emotion attitude belief or thought by someone else group organization firm or community . The broadening definition applies to the current interventions by national and state provincial governments as well as healthcare facilities medical science facilities firms and individuals to mitigate and eliminate the impact of the COVID 19 pandemic . Framing interventions as experiments is helpful in improving the quality of their designs implementing them successfully and validly interpreting their effectiveness . In January and February 2020 a few nations were exemplars for accurately forecasting the coming disaster of COVID 19 as a cause of illness and death and in designing implementing effective mitigating strategies Denmark Finland Republic of Korea New Zealand Norway and Vietnam . While the COVID 19 prevention intervention tests now being run for several promising vaccines are true experiments the researchers analyzing the data from these interventions may need prompting to examine the efficacy of each vaccine tested by modeling demographic subgroups for the members in the treatment and placebo groups in the randomized control trials .

@highlight Research across disciplines provide principles tools for in mitigating disasters.
@highlight Symmetric theory and NHTS are detrimental to advancing science.
@highlight Natural experiment do not include the requirements of a true experiment.
@highlight An estimate of 2.1 million U.S. deaths from COVID 19 may be overly conservative.
@highlight Intervention performance marks to COVID 19 by nations include Sweden F U.S F.
