 The Prison Rape Elimination Act was designed to address sexual violence in prison . While previous has focused on sexual violence occurring in correctional facilities there has been a dearth of studies that document the expertise experience or reflections of program following the cimplementation of PREA within a correctional system . The current study utilizes a lessons learned approach to discuss the impact of the PREA Demonstration Project on a state prison system that includes 19 correctional institutions . Results indicate the benefits of merging the philosophical orientation of key stakeholders establishing benchmarks and the need for partnerships with prosecutors . A comparison of the perceptions of correctional administrators inmates and front line correctional officers regarding PREA is included . Also featured are the lessons learned from the implementation of PREA into four prison sites along with the concept of building trust and the impact of lockdowns due to staff shortages .

@highlight While research on the impact Prison Rape Elimination Act PREA has produced a number of key outcomes related to
@highlight  there is a lack of knowledge regarding the
@highlight of conducting evaluations of PREA. This is surprisingly considering that researchers must address the perceptions and needs of various key groups inmate staff and administrators. Moreover future research activities are likely to take place in high security state prisons which are unique milieus. It is important that researchers share the lessons they learned while conducting the evaluations.
@highlight The current study utilizes a lessons learned approach to discuss the impact of the PREA Demonstration Project on a state prison system that includes 19 correctional institutions. Results indicate the benefits of merging the philosophical orientation of key stakeholders establishing benchmarks and the need for partnerships with prosecutors. A comparison of the perceptions of correctional administrators inmates and front line correctional officers regarding PREA is included. Also featured are the lessons learned from the implementation of PREA into four prison sites along with the concept of building trust and the impact of lockdowns due to staff shortages.
