 This paper investigates service functionality in the domain of B2B platform assimilation from the buyers perspective . Using a customer service life cycle framework we identified five dimensions of service functionality namely information search negotiation acquisition ownership and retirement . We theorize that the importance of these dimensions is contingent upon current level of B2B platform assimilation . Furthermore building on an enabler inhibitor perspective we theorize that the benefits and top management support are the enablers whereas assimilation costs managerial complexity and demand uncertainty are the inhibitors of a firms future decision to assimilate a B2B platform . Using a two staged field survey we tested our theory on a sample of 191 professionals . The results indicate that the importance of service functionality dimensions varies depending on the current level of service assimilation namely the importance of information search functionalities decreases while the importance of ownership and retirement functionalities increases as the firms move from the awareness stage to the general deployment stage . Furthermore our results indicate that benefits and top management support enable future platform assimilation irrespective of the assimilation stage a firm is in currently . Assimilation costs were found to have negative impact on future platform assimilation among the companies who had a low level of current assimilation . However the effect became non significant for the companies with a higher level of current assimilation . Our paper contributes to the theory development by showing that the importance of different IT mediated services is contingent upon current level of assimilation and showing which factors retain their importance throughout the assimilation stages . We describe management implications for B2B platform owners and buyer organizations .

@highlight This paper investigates service functionality in the domain of B2B platform assimilation.
@highlight We tested our theory on a sample of 191 professionals using a two staged field survey.
@highlight We identified five dimensions of service functionality.
@highlight The importance of functionality dimensions varies depending on the current level of assimilation.
@highlight Benefits and top management support enable future platform assimilation.
@highlight Assimilation costs inhibit future assimilation among the firms with low level of current assimilation.
