 Based on a cross sectional field study Reinking et al . propose a complex theoretical model for understanding the characteristics of dashboards that promote use and lead to individual and organizational performance gains . This study tests the theoretical model using survey data collected from 323 middle and upper level managers with experience using corporate dashboards . The data were analyzed using components based structural equation modeling and the results provide strong support for the external validity of the Reinking et al . theoretical model . The results show that two primary constructs strategy alignment and interactive management control are important factors impacting the extent of dashboard use perceived managerial performance and perceived organizational performance . Prior research has expressed concerns over the tendency of managers to lose sight of strategic objectives and focus solely on performance measures . However our results indicate that operational managers perceive that dashboards focused on specifically tailored KPIs lead to both improved managerial and organizational performance . This study contributes to management control and strategy research in two important ways . While prior research has examined strategy in the executive level context through evaluations changes or initiative implementations this study investigates strategy alignment at the operational levels of the organization . Second the results suggest that intentional strategy surrogation may have beneficial effects at the lower operational levels in an organization .

@highlight Provides strong support and external validity for Reinking et al. 2019 theoretical model
@highlight Provides insights into the strategy surrogation concerns that have been raised in literature
@highlight Strong association between strategy alignment and interactive controls in dashboards
@highlight The extend of dashboard use is mediated by dashboard quality and dashboard information.
@highlight Indicates the characteristics of dashboards that promote use and lead to performance gains
