 The gradual but marked decline in the correspondence between aggregated accounting numbers and market valuations such as stock returns is a well documented phenomenon in the research literature . Rapid advances in technology have paved the way for the collection of unprecedented volumes of data . Currently the slow speed of information dissemination laggard accounting systems and a focus on high levels of aggregation are perhaps the largest contributors to waning relevance of financial reporting . The fight for trading superiority is leading users to seek relevant data elsewhere and may contribute to these observed effects . This paper proposes an accounting system known as User XBRL designed to overcome these issues . This system collects analyzes and displays information in such a way that caters to the speed detail and customization demands of modern day stakeholders . U XBRL amalgamates all types of data pertinent to a business including both internal company data and exogenous source data . Each piece of data is assigned to a firm resource according to the resource based view . Then U XBRL standardizes the information according to data standards and feeds it to a central repository . This repository is primarily organized through XBRL tags and is governed secondarily by other standards and taxonomies . A number of applications can be used individually to select data from the repository for analysis . Using U XBRL the recognition monitoring and assurance of resources are streamlined .

@highlight There is an increasing focus on information items outside of financial reports.
@highlight Propose a new accounting information system based on REA and resource based view
@highlight Operationalized through XBRL which supports hierarchy and is machine readable
@highlight Data are tagged with data standards such as resource Audit Data Standards and XBRL GL.
@highlight Assurance of data and monitoring of firm changes are completed in real time
@highlight Finally displayed on a completely customizable user interface
