 Digitization is said to strongly disrupt business and professional life . Especially tax consulting has aroused public interest in this respect . Frey and Osborne even go so far as to predict that tax consulting will become obsolete . Although these statements are misleading without further interpretation there is no denying the fact that some change in the accounting and tax profession is inevitable . In Germany however business digitization currently does not seem to be urgently necessary in the tax consulting field since this profession is protected by law from competition . Thus by examining the digitization efforts of German tax consultants we are able to exclude almost all effects of outside pressure and therefore take a look at intrinsic motivation . This study focuses on psychological factors and explores the relationship between tax consultants Big Five personality and their level of digitization . Personality is measured using the ten item Big Five inventory provided by Rammstedt and John . We develop a digital maturity model based on 20 questions relating to digitization in business and tax consulting . After carrying out a factor analysis five factors are extracted . To interpret our results we develop two business model transformation indices as well as an overall digitization index . Our analysis is based on a survey of 968 members of the chamber of tax consultants in Munich Germany . We are able to show that tax consultants scoring high on extraversion and openness to experience and low on neuroticism exhibit a higher level of digitization . This is to the best of our knowledge the first study to discuss intrinsic motivation and digitization in an accounting context . Moreover an index for digitization as a whole and two business model transformation indices are provided shedding light upon a hard to grasp phenomenon .

@highlight Digitization is said to disrupt whole occupational areas e.g. the accounting profession.
@highlight This paper develops a digital maturity framework for the accounting tax consulting industry.
@highlight This paper takes into account personality when investigating success in digitization.
@highlight We find that extraversion openness and neuroticism affect digitization behavior of accountants tax consultants in Germany.
