 This paper offers a systematic literature review on the fit among context supply chain integration and performance based on the analysis of 116 articles published in 28 peer reviewed journals . By using Venkatraman s model which distinguishes fit into different forms to frame previous literature and Hakansson s interaction model to classify the investigated contextual variables the present research offers an original lens through which to examine the results found and to identify some open and unsolved issues and opportunities for future research . Based on these results the research concludes that the most used forms of fit are mediation and moderation . Some examples of popular research topics include the moderating role of uncertainty complexity in influencing SCI benefits and the role of SCI as a prerequisite for other operations and supply chain management practices . In addition future research opportunities exist in several areas including the adoption of a behavioural operations supply chain management perspective and institutional theory to study SCI antecedents and the study of national culture as a moderator of the link between SCI and performance . However the most promising research opportunities come from the less used fit forms and from combinations of multiple fit forms that could help to address some unsolved issues in SCI such as the balance between upstream and downstream integration and optimal SCI profiles . The arguments discussed could be useful for both academics and practitioners interested in the SCI performance link and the role of context .

@highlight The systematic literature review examines fit among context SCI and performance.
@highlight Venkatraman s 1989 fit model is used to classify previous literature.
@highlight Contextual variables are classified using IMP interaction model.
@highlight The most explored and under explored contextual variables are identified.
@highlight Promising implications for both researchers and practitioners are offered.
