 This paper facilitates an in depth view of the transformation needed for the transition from traditional to sustainable supply chain management by delineating its elemental aspects . Taking an organizational unit of analysis perspective this conceptual review seeks to characterize the fundamental nature of complexities inherent in the transformation and thereby seeks to explicate the elemental nature of organizational efforts responsible for shaping sustainable supply chains . The findings outline intriguing mechanisms for explaining the complex and endless nature of the transformation for organizations . This discourse also involves the proposition of two novel concepts applied in this context the SSCM Force field and Differential Efforts in SSCM . While the former represents the intricate interplay between organizational efforts and organizational complexities in absorbing SSCM practices in the supply chain routines of an organization the latter reflects the value of additional efforts above and beyond what is required in existing supply chain routines to facilitate the integration of a desired SSCM practice into routines . The findings show how the force field impedes an organization s progress in SSCM and how differential effort allows an organization to overcome the force field to extend theoretical frameworks and offering valuable guidance for practicing managers . Overall the research strengthens the conceptual foundation of SSCM theory by explicating the under explored aspects involved in an organization s progressive journey toward SSCM . Further it is a first attempt to outline the organizational implications of the SSCM journey .

@highlight A conceptual review of the transformation from traditional to sustainable SCM.
@highlight Consideration of operational complexities inherent in sustainable SCM.
@highlight Emphasis on organizational efforts and mechanisms for the transformation.
@highlight Propositions pertaining to the SSCM Force field and Differential Efforts in sustainable SCM.
