 This exploratory study investigates value co destruction in the Business to Business context and examines the impact of actors opportunistic behaviour on value co creation . The research undertakes an in depth case study based approach . It uses data triangulation where multiple sources of evidence are collected from the case organisation and its service ecosystem partners in the ICT sector . The partners included in the study are distributors channel partners competitors and customers . B2B alliances are driven by the motivations to maximise strategic value and minimise transaction cost . Thus using the ecosystem lens we find that actors capabilities vendor s approach to achieving strategic benefit and the channel governance mechanism enable value co creation . However using the transaction cost theory lens we report that actors opportunistic behaviour technological disruptions and new business model challenges lead to value co destruction . Alliance partners need to evaluate the strategic benefits of collaboration knowledge sharing learning trust building market expansion and technology sharing considering partners self serving behaviour driven by transaction cost economies . All ecosystem actors are seeking to develop capabilities exhibit knowledge differentiators demonstrate technology leadership reduce uncertainty and respond to new business model challenges thus causing value co destruction . Thus this research is more encompassing because it explores factors that lead to both value co creation and co destruction .

@highlight Value co creation happens when alliance partners share resources support value propositions and have perceived value in the ecosystem.
@highlight Successful alliances show strong governance strategies and channel policies play a key role in facilitating value co creation in the ecosystem.
@highlight Value co destruction happens due to conflictual interactions between alliance actors resulting in win lose or lose lose outcomes.
@highlight Alliance actors show strong and weak forms of opportunism which weakens the foundation of collaboration and results in value co destruction.
@highlight This research is more encompassing because it explores factors that lead to both value co creation and co destruction.
