 Recent years have been characterized by the ubiquitous use of social networks as a mean of self and social identity which offers new opportunities for qualitative and quantitative research in social sciences . The dynamics of interactions on social platforms such as Twitter promote the development of social movements around hashtags such as MeToo . According to previous research this movement has set the beginning of an era . The present study aims to determine the key indicators of social identity in the MeToo movement in Twitter using textual analysis and sentiment analysis of user generated content . To this end we use a cognitive pragmatics point of view to study a corpus of 31.305 tweets . Using the methodological approaches of corpus linguistics and discourse analysis we identify keywords topics frequency and n grams or collocations to understand the social identity of the MeToo movement . The key indicators of the social identity in the MeToo Era are validated using association statistical measures of Log Likelihood and Mutual Information . Our results reveal the polarization of sentiments where UGC is associated with both negative and positive topics . The social identity is particularly strongly correlated with women and the workplace . Finally regardless the industry or area these results present a holistic approach to the social identity of MeToo .

@highlight The study of the MeToo movement through the User Generated Content UGC allows us to identify the social identity behind the online social movement.
@highlight We have shown that Discourse Analysis DA and Corpus Linguistics CL allow for a meaningful exploration of key indicators of social identity. The key indicators can be organized into 7 Topics Public Figures Sexuality Politics Female Topics Media Business and MeToo and other Hashtags .
@highlight The results of our analysis of the n grams related to each of the topics suggest that the MeToo movement has a two fold identity destructive negative i.e. cowards rape scandals and constructive positive terms i.e. educate leader rights .
@highlight As shown by the collocations of some of the identified terms MeToo movement is closely linked to women their identity and their workspace.
@highlight The present study on the MeToo movement has employed the holistic perspective of Information Science IS to determine social identity regardless the industry.
