 Social media analytics is a dynamic field which has received considerable attention from both academics and management practitioners alike . A significant number of the scholarly research currently being conducted in SMA however is conceptual . Industry experts know that SMA creates new opportunities for organisations who want to more strongly engage with their customers and improve business performance . However the relationship between social media analytic practices customer engagement and business performance has not yet been sufficiently investigated from an empirical perspective . In order to gain a better understanding of the relationship between SMAP and BP and the mediation role of CE in that process a large scale survey was conducted among senior and mid level managers as well as consultants in the Retail and information technology industries in India . Specifically a structured closed ended questionnaire was administered to managers and management consultants country wide and gathered usable responses from 281 respondents holding positions such as Digital Marketing Executive Digital Marketing Specialist Management Consultant Analytics Manager Customer Relationship Manager Marketing Director Engagement Manager etc . who were in charge of digital marketing strategies in the respondent retail and IT organisations . The questionnaire addressed issues related to the way in which SMAP contribute to an enhanced business performance through the mediation role of customer engagement . Structural Equation Modelling was employed to analyse the received empirical data . On the basis of the findings our research concludes that there is a significant positive relationship between SMAP and BP mediated by CE in the Indian retail and IT industries .

@highlight Research highlights the link between social media analytics practice SMAP customer engagement CE and business performance BP .
@highlight SMA does create new business opportunities by enhanced customer engagement as well as overall business performance.
@highlight SMA helps the retail organisation magnify its business presence run a smart social media campaign reduce customer services support costs by using social media monitoring process.
@highlight Social media enables the building of an active community by administering an online conversation and taking customer responses and opinions on a particular product and its services.
