 Achieving the anticipated business benefits of a social medium is important as organizations diligently invest in different social media platforms . While much previous research assumes that social media helps organizations to communicate with customers less is known about whether customers embrace using social media to interact with organizations . It is important to understand the role of social media for business communication from the customers perspective as this may significantly deviate from the organizations own communicative intentions . In this exploratory case study of the Moon Struck hotel in China we investigate both how customers interpret the hotels use of WeChat official account for business communication and how customers respond to messages received from Moon Strucks WeChat account . Adopting a symbolic interactionism perspective we surprisingly find that WeChat personal accounts and Moon Strucks official account offer radically different meanings to followers . Specifically WeChat personal account symbolizes a sociality oriented meaning while Moon Strucks WeChat official account symbolizes information broadcasting related meaning . Both technological features and the distance of relationships among users contribute to the constructed symbolic meaning of technology subsequently affecting users WeChat use patterns . The theoretical implications of this study are discussed and recommendations are made for future research and practice .

@highlight We attempt to understand how customers interpret the use of social media for personal and business communication and how customers respond to messages received.
@highlight WeChat personal accounts and Moon Strucks official account offer radically different meanings to customers.
@highlight WeChat personal accounts symbolizes a sociality oriented meaning e.g. relationship and image building .
@highlight WeChat official accounts symbolizes information broadcasting related meaning e.g. selling advertising and branding .
@highlight Both technological features and the distance of relationships among users contribute to the constructed symbolic meaning of technology subsequently affecting use patterns.
