 We empirically explore the associations between social media use at home and shopping preferences using survey data . We focus on popular retail firms including brick and mortar firms such as Walmart Target Nordstrom and Best Buy and online retailers such as Amazon Walmart Target and Best Buy . Social media use of popular platforms such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Skype and a general category Other Social Media are analyzed . We find that use of LinkedIn Skype and Other Social Media at home in the model without control variables is associated with shopping at Nordstrom Walmart and Target . Shopping online at Amazon Best Buy and Walmart without control variables in the model specification is associated with use of Facebook Skype Twitter and Other Social Media at home . We report additional insights using an alternative specification that includes social media use at work . Media Richness Theory and Strength of Weak Ties from Social Network Analysis and related theories help explain our results . Our results have important implications for social marketing campaigns and social media policies for consumer retail firms .

@highlight We empirically explore associations between social media use at home and shopping preferences using survey data for popular retail firms such as Walmart Target Nordstrom and Best Buy and their online stores including Amazon.
@highlight Social media platforms analyzed are Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Skype and Other Social Media.
@highlight We find that using LinkedIn Skype and Other Social Media are associated with shopping from Target Nordstrom and Walmart.
@highlight Our results suggest that shopping online from Amazon Best Buy and Walmart are associated with using Facebook Skype Twitter and Other Social Media.
@highlight Media Richness Theory MRT and Strength of Weak Ties from Social Network Analysis SNA and related theories help explain our results.
@highlight Our results have important implications for social marketing campaigns and social media policies for consumer retail firms.
