 The breeding and spreading of negative emotion in public emergencies posed severe challenges to social governance . The traditional government information release strategies ignored the negative emotion evolution mechanism . Focusing on the information release policies from the perspectives of the government during public emergency events by using cognitive big data analytics our research applies deep learning method into news framing framework construction process and tries to explore the influencing mechanism of government information release strategy on contagion evolution of negative emotion . In particular this paper first uses Word2Vec cosine word vector similarity calculation and SO PMI algorithms to build a public emergencies oriented emotional lexicon then it proposes a emotion computing method based on dependency parsing designs an emotion binary tree and dependency based emotion calculation rules and at last through an experiment it shows that the emotional lexicon proposed in this paper has a wider coverage and higher accuracy than the existing ones and it also performs a emotion evolution analysis on an actual public event based on the emotional lexicon using the emotion computing method proposed . And the empirical results show that the algorithm is feasible and effective . The experimental results showed that this model could effectively conduct fine grained emotion computing improve the accuracy and computational efficiency of sentiment classification . The final empirical analysis found that due to such defects as slow speed non transparent content poor penitence and weak department coordination the existing government information release strategies had a significant negative impact on the contagion evolution of anxiety and disgust emotion could not regulate negative emotions effectively . These research results will provide theoretical implications and technical supports for the social governance . And it could also help to establish negative emotion management mode and construct a new pattern of the public opinion guidance .

@highlight Negative emotion detection is of key importance for the success of government information release during emergencies.
@highlight We use deep learning applied to textual data to analyze negative emotion dissemination mechanism.
@highlight We present the evolution of public emotion in each stage.
@highlight We explore the effect of government information release policy on negative emotion.
