 There is no doubt that scientific discoveries have always brought changes to society . New technologies help solve social problems such as transportation and education while research brings benefits such as curing diseases and improving food production . Despite the impacts caused by science and society on each other this relationship is rarely studied and they are often seen as different universes . Previous literature focuses only on a single domain detecting social demands or research fronts for example without ever crossing the results for new insights . In this work we create a system that is able to assess the relationship between social and scholar data using the topics discussed in social networks and research topics . We use the articles as science sensors and humans as social sensors via social networks . Topic modeling algorithms are used to extract and label social subjects and research themes and then topic correlation metrics are used to create links between them if they have a significant relationship . The proposed system is based on topic modeling labeling and correlation from heterogeneous sources so it can be used in a variety of scenarios . We make an evaluation of the approach using a large scale Twitter corpus combined with a PubMed article corpus . In both of them we work with data of the Zika epidemic in the world as this scenario provides topics and discussions on both domains . Our work was capable of discovering links between various topics of different domains which suggests that some of the relationships can be automatically inferred by the sensors . Results can open new opportunities for forecasting social behavior assess community interest in a scientific subject or directing research to the population welfare .

@highlight A method for extracting topics from heterogeneous data from different sources and domains is proposed.
@highlight Topic Similarity is addressed for comparison of topics from different backgrounds.
@highlight Social influence in science is detected with topics from both domains.
@highlight The proposed methods and metrics are independent from text idiom.
@highlight Evaluation is made in the scenario of a disease outbreak with results suggesting a cross domain relationship.
