 The blockchain is considered to be the potential driver of the digital economy . The Blockchain technology outweighs the challenges associated with the traditional transaction business governed and regulated by the third trusted party . There is a growth in the interest among the researchers the industry and the academia to study and leverage the potential of Blockchain . Blockchain provides a decentralized and distributed public ledger for all the participating parties . Though it seems that blockchain is a viable choice and solution for all the centralized governed and regulated transactions it has potential challenges that need to be resolved opportunities to be explored and applications to be studied . This paper utilizes a systematic literature review to study several research endeavors made in the domain of blockchain . To further research on blockchain adoption the paper theoretically constructs an integrated framework of the blockchain innovation adoption process in an organization considering organizational and user acceptance perspectives . This would facilitate its widespread adoption thereby achieving sustained leadership solutions . The paper offers 23 propositions to information systems information management scholars with respect to innovation characteristics organizational characteristics environmental characteristics and user acceptance characteristics . Further the paper explores several areas of future research and directions that can provide deep insights for overcoming challenges and for the adoption of blockchain technology .

@highlight Presents a systematic review of the scholarly research work published on blockchain with respect to its challenges potential opportunities and applications.
@highlight Proposes an integrated framework an ontological construct and a set of research propositions that hold the potential to drive and contribute to the future research studies.
@highlight Constructs an integrated framework of the blockchain innovation adoption process in organizations by considering the organizational level adoption of blockchain and user acceptance of blockchain at an individual level.
@highlight Proposes a comprehensive blockchain innovation adoption framework.
