 Organizations have often implemented Knowledge Management programs to connect employees better and promote knowledge sharing . In the context of Higher Education Institutions this is particularly valid as knowledge creation and dissemination direct their mission and vision . Academics are one of the pillars of HEIs where knowledge is created and shared . Nonetheless as HEIs strive to promote academics knowledge sharing culture the actual behaviour of academics might remain inhibited by numerous issues namely the organizational . Prior research has been focused primarily on individual technological and scarce aspects of organizational elements . Therefore this study assesses the role of organizational climate operationalized by organizational leadership and trust in academics KS in HEIs . Partial Least Square method where variance based Structural Equation Modelling was applied in this study . Results from 257 surveyed academics indicate that organizational climate has an exceptionally strong influence on academics KS practices . Additionally organizational leadership and trust had a positive relationship with academics KS behaviour . These findings indicate that it is necessary to consider organizational elements and their interactions when understanding and fostering academics knowledge sharing behaviour in HEIs context .

@highlight The potential role of knowledge management and sharing in contributing to the success of organizations is significant.
@highlight Despite acknowledging universities and academics as repositories for knowledge sharing and dissemination managing and sharing knowledge in the academic world often faced number of challenges.
@highlight This study aims to examine the role of organizational climate on knowledge sharing among academics in higher education institutions.
@highlight By utilizing the Theory of Planned Behaviour an explanatory quantitative approach targeting 257 academics participated in this study.
@highlight Organizational climate subjective norms leadership and organizational trust were found to have strong influence on academics knowledge sharing practices.
