 Information systems service organizations are increasingly more concerned with their ability to co create digital services with customers in service ecosystems . Practitioners and researchers however lack understanding of which organization mechanisms effectively contribute to IS organizations innovation practices . Grounded in service dominant logic we hypothesized that process reference frameworks such as the IT Infrastructure Library act as institutional arrangements through their norms rules and practices enhancing IS organizations ability to innovate digital services . Data collected from 159 IS organizations confirmed our hypotheses showing that effects on digital service innovation are mediated by an organizations digital service climate and co creation practices . This study makes four major contributions . First our results contribute to the literature on service dominant logic and the role of institutional arrangements in facilitating service innovation in service ecosystems . Second our study offers a novel understanding of PRFs role in value co creation and digital service innovation . Third by introducing the digital service climate from existing theoretical frameworks that might assist in conceptualizing the role of culture and shared meaning our study contributes to further theorizing on the social factors that influence service ecosystem practices . Finally our findings can motivate IT managers to consider using PRFs to develop capabilities for creating business value together with customers .

@highlight We investigate to what extent the use of process reference frameworks influence the IS organizations capabilities for digital service innovation.
@highlight We conduct a cross sectional study in the Sweden Denmark Finland and Norway.
@highlight We find that process reference frameworks influence digital service innovation directly and indirectly by stimulating a positive digital service climate and digital service co creation.
@highlight We contribute by closing a gap in the literature regarding the nature of institutional arrangements for value co creation and digital service innovation.
@highlight We contribute by revealing how process oriented frameworks can stimulate organizational changes that increase the innovation capabilities and thus the success of the IS organization.
