 Blockchain Technology has led to a disruption in the supply chain by removing the trust related issues . Studies are being conducted worldwide to leverage the benefits provided by BT in improving the performance of the supply chains . The literature reveals BT to offer various benefits leading to improvements in the sustainable performance of the agriculture supply chains . It is expected that BT will bring a paradigm shift in the way the transactions are carried in the ASC by reducing the high number of intermediaries delayed payments and high transaction lead times . India a developing economy caters to the food security needs of an ever growing population and faces many challenges affecting ASC sustainability . It is therefore essential to adopt BT in the ASC to leverage the various benefits . In this study we identify and establish the relationships between the enablers of BT adoption in ASC . Thirteen enablers were identified from the literature and validated by the experts before applying a combined Interpretive Structural Modelling and Decision Making Trial and Evaluation Laboratory methodology to envision the complex causal relationships between the identified BT enablers . The findings from the study suggest that among the identified enablers traceability was the most significant reason for BT implementation in ASC followed by auditability immutability and provenance . The findings of the study will help the practitioners to design the strategies for BT implementation in agriculture creating a real time data driven ASC . The results will also help the policymakers in developing policies for faster implementation of BT ensuring food safety and sustainable ASCs .

@highlight Potential enablers to blockchain technology BT adoption in Indian Agriculture Supply Chain ASC are identified.
@highlight Relationships among the enablers and their inter dependencies established using combined ISM and DEMATEL methodology.
@highlight Traceability of the agricultural products was found to be the key enabler for adoption of BT in ASC.
@highlight Other enablers include auditability immutability and provenance.
@highlight This study is first of its kind on adoption of BT in Indian ASC.
