 Online social media is transforming the way customers communicate and exchange product information with others . Consumers increasingly rely on the opinions and recommendations from social media members when making purchasing decisions . However information received from social media may have different meanings and social implications for consumers . Based on the theory of informational social influence and heuristic systematic model we develop a model to understand the relative importance of informational social influence normative social influence and perceived information quality on the consumers social shopping intention under different levels of product involvement . The results of the structural equation modeling using a sample of 503 consumers in the Facebook brand fan pages indicate that social influences have a greater impact on the consumers social shopping intention than perceived information quality . Three social interactional factors have a positive effect on social shopping intention via the mediation of informational normative social influence and perceive information quality . The multiple group analysis suggests that high product involved consumers are motivated to exert more cognitive effort to evaluate the product information . In contrast low product involved consumers are more susceptible to informational social influence . We draw on these findings to offer implications for researchers and practitioners .

@highlight Information received from social media may have different meanings and social implications for consumers.
@highlight Social influences and perceived information quality positively relate to the consumers social shopping intention.
@highlight Social interactions affect social influence and perceive information quality and in turn the social shopping intention.
@highlight High involved consumers are likely to devote to systematic information processing.
@highlight In contrast lowly involved consumers tend to rely on heuristic cues.
