 In todays marketplace firms participating in a supply chain are required to work collaboratively to quickly respond to market and consumer demands . To understand how firms may effectively achieve supply chain collaboration this paper presents an empirical study using a moderated mediation model that explores the effects of formal contract e business strategic alignment and the degree of competition on collaboration in demand driven supply chain . Using data from a survey of IT and business executives in 209 firms we discover that formal contract has a positive effect on supply chain collaboration through intellectual and operational alignment . In addition the positive mediating effect of operational alignment is stronger under a higher degree of competition . Although there is no moderated mediation effect in the path of formal contract intellectual alignment supply chain collaboration the degree of competition shows a negative moderated effect on the relationship between formal contract and intellectual alignment and a positive moderated effect on the relationship between intellectual alignment and supply chain collaboration . Learnings from this study contribute to supply chain management literature and provide a comprehensive view of the governance and strategic antecedents of supply chain collaboration under various environmental circumstances .

@highlight This paper presents an empirical study using a moderated mediation model and explores the effect of formal contract e business strategic alignment including intellectual and operational alignment and the degree of competition on collaboration in demand driven supply chain.
@highlight Using data from a survey of IT and business executives in 209 firms we discover that formal contract has a positive effect on supply chain collaboration through intellectual and operational alignment.
@highlight The positive mediating effect of operational alignment is stronger under the higher degree of competition.
@highlight The degree of competition shows a negative moderated effect on the relationship between formal contract and intellectual alignment and a positive moderated effect on the relationship between intellectual alignment and supply chain collaboration.
