 The U.S. China dispute surrounding 5G motivates further examination on Chinas approach to international standardization . While Chinas challenges with various standard initiatives to the global standards regime peaked in the 5G dispute have attracted public interests scholarly approach to the dispute is still limited . We place the dispute in the context of Chinas long standing attempts for international standardization in ICT sectors . With enhanced economic power China has pursued for pushing indigenous technologies into international standards which has been a core part of its national science and technology policy . This paper examines Chinas international standard initiatives from the perspective of techno nationalism . Our literature review identifies three pillars of techno nationalism state empowerment growth orientation and global connection . Then we investigate three cases of WAPI TD SCDMA and 5G and discuss how the patterns of developing international standards have varied in the framework of techno nationalism . Over time Chinas international standard initiatives based on techno nationalism have strengthened global connection and growth orientation with increasing proximity to techno nationalism of the Western style . In particular Chinas aspiration for growth orientation was much enhanced with the 5G standard initiative compared to WAPI or TD SCDMA as it aims to be the first mover in the 5G race . Overall our study suggests that Chinas national S T policy has been moving from the catch up to the first mover strategy but the transformation continues to take place in the framework of techno nationalism .

@highlight The U.S. China dispute on 5G necessitates it to reexamine Chinas approaches to international standardization in ICT.
@highlight Chinas three major efforts for ICT standardization WAPI TD SCDMA and 5G are all under techno nationalism.
@highlight China will pursue IPR based standardization in emerging technologies as it moves from catch up to first mover strategy.
