 The emergence of big data brings both opportunities and challenges to high tech enterprises . How to keep competitive advantages and improve innovation performance is important for enterprises in big data environment . Except from organizational learning ability and the use of advanced technology the corporate governance also plays an important role in the process of enterprises innovation practice . This article creatively combines with the insights of internal and external governance and explores how the managerial power and network centrality affects enterprises innovation performance in big data environment . Considering about the differences among distinct regional big data environment this paper also takes classification research on it . The research findings show that managerial power has a significant positive impact on innovation performance managerial power could enhance enterprises centrality in network and the enterprise which located in network central position has more advantages in obtaining resources and significantly improves firms innovation performance . Network centrality plays a mediating role on managerial power and innovation performance . Further research finds that the positive effects of managerial power and network centrality are more significantly in the strong big data environment . These findings enrich the research of high tech enterprise innovation from a combinative governance view and contribute to the literatures on enterprise innovation in big data environment .

@highlight Combine with the insights of internal and external governance explore how the managerial power and network centrality affect high tech enterprises innovation performance in big data environment.
@highlight Enterprise s managerial power and network centrality have significant positive impacts on innovation performance.
@highlight Network centrality plays a partial mediating role through the effects of resource acquisition reputation incentive and R D competition.
@highlight The relationships among managerial power network centrality and innovation performance are more significant in the strong big data environment.
