 The mechanism of business analytics affordances enhancing the management of cloud computing data security is a key antecedent in improving cloud computing security . Based on information value chain theory and IT affordances theory a research model is built to investigate the underlying mechanism of business analytics affordances enhancing the management of cloud computing data security . The model includes business analytics affordances decision making affordances of cloud computing data security decision making rationality of cloud computing data security and the management of cloud computing data security . Simultaneously the model considers the role of data driven culture and IT business process integration . It is empirically tested using data collected from 316 enterprises by Partial Least Squares based structural equation model . Without data driven culture and IT business process integration the results suggest that there is a process from business analytics affordances to decision making affordances of cloud computing data security decision making rationality of cloud computing data security and to the management of cloud computing data security . Moreover Data driven culture and IT business process integration have a positive mediation effect on the relationship between business analytics affordances and decision making affordances of cloud computing data security . The conclusions in this study provide useful references for the enterprise to strengthen the management of cloud computing data security using business analytics .

@highlight This paper extends the mechanism of business analytics affordances enhancing the management of cloud computing data security.
@highlight This paper builds the model about the mechanism of business analytics affordances enhancing the management of cloud computing data security.
@highlight This paper tests the hypotheses using data collected from 316 enterprises by Partial Least Squares based structural equation model.
@highlight Analysis shows that there is a process from business analytics affordances to decision making affordances of cloud computing data security.
@highlight Data driven culture and IT business process integration have a positive mediation effect in the model.
