 The data driven mode has promoted the researches of preventive medicine . In prediction of disease risks physicians clinical cognitive diagnosis data can be used for early prevention of diseases and therefore to reduce medical cost to improve accessibility of medical services and to lower medical risk . However researches involved no physicians cognition of patients conditions in intelligent inquiry under e health business mode offered no diagnosis big data neglected the values of the fused text information generated by joint activities of online and offline medical data and failed to thoroughly analyze the phenomenon of redundancy complementarity dispersion caused by high order information shortage from the online inquiry data driven perspective . Besides the risk prediction simply based on offline clinical cognitive diagnosis data undoubtedly reduces prediction precision . Importantly relevant researches rarely considered temporal relationships of different medical events did not conduct detailed analysis on practical problems of pattern explosion did not offer a thought of intelligent portrayal map and did not conduct relevant risk prediction based on the sub maps obtained from the map . In consequence the paper presents a disease risk prediction method with the model for redundancy complementarity dispersion based feature selection from physicians online cognitive diagnosis big data to realize features selection from the cognitive diagnosis big data of online intelligent inquiry the obtained features were ranked intelligently for subsequent high dimensional information shortage compensation the compensated key feature information of the cognitive diagnosis big data was fused with offline electronic medical record to form the virtual electronic medical record . The formed VEMR was combined with the method of the sequential feature map for modelling and a sequential feature map based model for disease risk prediction was presented to obtain online users medical conditions . A neighborhood based collaborative prediction model was presented for prediction of an online intelligent medical inquiry users possible diseases in the future and to intelligently rank the risk probabilities of the diseases . In the experiments the online intelligent medical inquiry users VEMRs were used as the foundation of the simulation experiments to predict disease risks in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease population and rheumatic heart disease population . The experiments demonstrated that the presented method showed relatively good metric performances in the VEMR and improved disease risk prediction .

@highlight Online intelligent medical inquiry based physicians cognitive diagnosis big data was fused with offline EMR to obtain VEMR.
@highlight A sequential feature map based model for disease risk prediction was presented to obtain online users medical conditions.
@highlight The optimized TRApriori method is used to mine a frequent feature map on the basis of the temporal graph.
@highlight The frequent feature graph to obtain the online users reconstruction coefficient and to realize disease risk prediction.
@highlight A neighborhood based collaborative prediction model was presented for prediction of an online users possible diseases.
