 We identified a lack of theoretical concepts and empirical knowledge about the perception and usage of social bots from the organizational and communication management perspective . Therefore we first introduce social bots in the realm of communication and information management by using a profound literature review . Second by building on mediatization theory and strategic communication we introduce the concept of deep strategic mediatization . By surveying the attitudes towards and usage of social bots of leading European communication professionals from 49 European countries we thirdly offer first indications how diverse European organizations in different European regions use social bots . Results indicate that leading communication professionals in Central and Western Europe as well as Scandinavia perceive highly ethical challenges while in Southern and Eastern Europe professionals are less skeptical regarding the usage of social bots . Only 11.5 percent declare their organization uses or are making plans to use social bots for strategic communication . They are used primarily for identifying and following social networks users . This refers specifically to the usage of digital traces for strategic communication purposes e.g . to identify topic area opinion leaders or social media influencers . However this represents only a small minority of the sample leading to the conclusion that only a small minority of organizations already practice deep strategic mediatization .

@highlight The study reported in the paper reveals first indication regarding the status quo of bot communication in Europe.
@highlight Theoretically it is based on mediatization theory and strategic communication and introduces the concept of deep strategic mediatization.
@highlight A minority of the leading professionals in Europe uses social bots. In total only 4 of the sample know that their organization uses social bots.
@highlight Social bots are seen primarily as threat for the society and organization that will lead to new ethical challenges.
