 This paper aims to contribute to the lack of design knowledge on digital platforms by studying the new and specific context of DPs managed by industrial business associations to improve the internationalisation of small and medium enterprises . A specific objective is to elicit detailed digital platforms requirements and features for this particular organisational context . A design science research approach is adopted to develop design propositions following the context intervention mechanism outcome logic . The design propositions are derived for DPs that can support different types of generative mechanisms of social interaction information sharing collaboration and collective action . The design propositions are obtained by balancing empirical knowledge based on interviews performed with IBAs and SMEs in Portugal and in the UK with theoretical knowledge from the literature of information systems DPs and collaborative networks . The utility of the design propositions is further evaluated by experts and IBAs . The findings are proved to be relevant for practice mainly for IBAs SMEs and digital platform designers to develop more effective collaborative DPs and sociotechnical systems supporting CNs and the internationalisation needs of SMEs . The knowledge generated in this study brings new design knowledge on DPs contributing with design propositions translated into tangible and concrete requirements and capabilities situated in a specific context and empirical setting .

@highlight SMEs have limited information management capability that hinder their internationalisation strategies.
@highlight Business associations could support the information management and collaboration of SMEs with digital platforms.
@highlight The current literature on digital platforms shows the need for developing more direct design knowledge.
@highlight A design science research approach is adopted to develop design propositions following the CIMO logic.
@highlight The design propositions are for digital platforms to support different types of generative mechanisms of social interaction.
