 Much research has made efforts to elaborate upon different dimensions to the digital divide including informational and communications technology access ICT usage and ICT outcomes . We assess the utility of such perspectives for studying digital inequality across prefectural cities in China . China is the world s largest ICT market in terms of the number of mobile devices in use internet users and broadband subscriptions yet it has notable digital inequality within and between provinces prefectural cities and counties . In this study we built a conceptual framework of digital divides for prefectural cities in China examined spatial agglomeration using cluster analysis and explored the leading correlates using a geographically weighted regression model . A large digital divide among the prefectural cities in China was revealed with cities with a high administrative level having a relatively high digital development index score . Prefectural cities with high DDI levels are mainly agglomerated in large metropolitan areas such as BeijingTianjinHebei the Yangtze River Delta the Pearl River Delta and the West Coast Economic Zone of the Taiwan Straits . Prefectural cities with low DDI levels are concentrated in the rural mountainous regions in southwest China and poverty stricken areas in central and western China . This study also found that the leading determinants of the digital divide are urban residential income the secondary education gross enrollment ratio rural residential income and the working age population ratio which indicates that socio economic problems rather than institution and innovation aspects have to be solved for improving ICT use and outcomes .

@highlight We built a conceptual model of digital divide covering the first second and third order digital divide.
@highlight Spatial differences and geographical cluster characteristics are identified and analyzed.
@highlight The leading determinants of ICT diffusion are urban residential income gross enrollment ratio and rural residential income.
@highlight Socio economic problems rather than institutions and innovation aspects have to be solved for ICT diffusion.
