 Recent research on Civic and Ethical Education in Ethiopia has revealed a need for improvement in a number of areas with regard to the current CEE curricula . These materials are currently oriented to a conservative form of civic education than on citizenship education whose aims are more progressive . The essential problem identified in the present study is that CEE content does not match the Ethiopian Ministry of Educations stated goals for CEE including the promotion of global citizenship . An inductive method was used to categorize themes found in the CEE curricula and textbook which were analyzed with reference to Tawils framework for education for global citizenship . A concept in textual analysis known as internal critique was also utilized to identify inconsistencies in the materials between the stated aims of the CEE program and the textbook content itself . The analysis revealed three main characteristics of the CEE textbooks namely an emphasis on sovereignty patriotism and responsibility ambivalence to Ethiopias independence from dependence on wealthier nations and abstraction in CEE content . This content does only partially match the Ethiopian governments stated aims for CEE . The findings of this study suggest that the content of the ethical dimension of Ethiopias CEE curriculum could be greatly improved through the inclusion of content that reflects an emphasis on citizenship education . Such an approach is more progressive than civic education and promotes a more learner centered and critical orientation to ethical issues on the part of students within the framework of Global Citizenship Education .

@highlight Ethiopias CEE program on
@highlight education as opposed to
@highlight education.
@highlight CEE currently emphasizes the formation of patriotic citizens to achieve social cohesion.
@highlight Content revision requires more consistent and coherent articulation of the governments aims.
@highlight Content focusing on life skills should be incorporated into the textbooks.
@highlight A more learner centered approach to ethical issues on the part of students is required.
