 Nationalisms rise represents a potential harbinger of doom for the internationalization of higher education . Space exists for research to amplify our understanding of the interplay between internationalization and nationalism from a public policy theory perspective . The study identified and classified policies and policy ideas pertinent to IoHE and furthermore explored how political rivalries in Taiwan have influenced IoHEs development under globalization . Analysis of documentary data from an online national database reveals how IoHE policy changes reflect the machinations of political actors to advance domestic political agendas and provoke controversy . The advocacy coalition framework informs our explanation of how the aforementioned changes reflect Taiwans inward looking political climate unique geopolitical circumstances and longstanding controversy over national identity . The paper discusses the implications of context for IoHE development across three consecutive government regimes to provide insights for further comparisons with other localities and contexts .

@highlight In stark contrast to the Western experience policy rationales for internationalization of higher education IoHE in Taiwan were taoriginally more related to non economic considerations.
@highlight The Taiwan case can be explained by the islands nascent political openness. Local politics have heavy impacts on the development of IoHE even in an era of globalization where market principles performance metrics and university autonomy are valued.
@highlight The subsystem actorsorientation of national identity which has a connection to their affiliation to political parties has played a prominent part in driving and shaping IoHE policy in Taiwan.
@highlight The influence of Taiwans inward looking political climate is more apparent in policy rationales than in policy strategies
@highlight The dynamics of the policy subsystem in which actors often exploit IoHE as an instrument for various domestic purposes are the key to explaining the features of IoHE policy in different country contexts.
