 The marketization of higher education in the 15 countries that were formally part of the USSR has established a system model that is distinctive within world higher education the dual track tuition system . The foundations of this model were established in the economic liberalization of late Soviet period which facilitated a common pattern in higher education across the post Soviet countries . Although a private sector has been established the primary mode of marketization has taken place within the public sector . This remains dominant but has been split into two heterogenous segments in terms of funding and student selection . National systems and individual institutions have become divided between state subsidized higher scoring students and fee paying lower performing students creating different valuations and behaviours for the two segments . National standardized testing is an important instrument of marketization shaping student selection and institutional differentiation and legitimating the unequal social outcomes that result . Empirical comparison across the 15 countries demonstrates a high level of privatisation of costs largely because of private funding within public sector . This system model which is incoherent and fosters a large scale commitment to non excellence reflects a larger duality within post Soviet societies and polities which remains unresolved . Higher education is riven between the Soviet egalitarian legacy of higher education as a public good and the post Soviet moment of the late 1980s and 1990s in which policy shaped by Anglo American neoliberal thinking set out to turn education into a consumer choice on the basis of an abstract formula of the ideal market .

@highlight Dual track tuition fee system used in the 15 post Soviet countries is globally distinctive.
@highlight This form of marketisation began in the late Soviet period.
@highlight In each institution students are divided into two funding and selection segments.
@highlight Standardised national testing is an instrument of marketization.
@highlight Dual track system reinforces social inequalities and legitimizes non excellence.
