 This article explores consequences for childrens education in custodial institutions in a contemporary market society England and Wales . It finds that policy decision making designed to transform prison education for children is primarily influenced by a desire to limit the cost to the public purse of custodial placements . This paper argues that market values influence decision making in the youth custody sector and shape the nature and quality of provision that children are permitted to access . The consequences associated with this include further fragmentation of prison provision for children an imbalance in the types of custodial place made available geographical discrepancies and persistent high re offending rates . The concern with the costs of custody is particularly prominent in a society subject to austerity measures across a wide range of public services particularly in the criminal justice sector . However it is inconsistent with contemporary knowledge and understanding of children in custody their needs and their vulnerabilities . The transformation supposedly sought is unlikely to materialize while annual cost per child place is a dominant driving force . Instead we need to start with an understanding of what individual support children in prison need in order to be education ready .

@highlight The consequences of applying market values to the youth custodial system and childrens education in prison the tend to be damaging for the custodial environments experienced by children.
@highlight In England and Wales there is evidence that despite the reduced use of imprisonment for children conditions for children have worsened with increased rates of self harm suicide violence towards staff and violence between children 
@highlight  .
@highlight Research has consistently demonstrated the importance of stable relationships and yet the preference for cost effectiveness value and keeping workforce salaries low foster the conditions in which we see problems with the retention of staff and undermines the quality of relationships that can be built in order to support education and learning Hart 2017 .
@highlight If cost continues to be the defining factor of government understandings of value then better to consider further reductions in the population of children incarcerated in the market society.
@highlight In a market society the financial costs of custodial solutions could help to make them a less viable option rather than as a driver for impoverished regimes.
