 Although Affirmative Action policies have been enforced in many countries their consequences are highly understudied especially in the context of developing economies . Section 12 of the Right to Education Act enforced in 2009 is the first attempt to introduce affirmative action in primary schools in India . The act requires all private schools to reserve at least twenty five percent seats for children from economically weaker sections . To understand the effect of the act on i social integration and ii academic outcomes we asked 1500 children from four schools to answer friendship surveys and short tests in Mathematics and English . The schools in our sample vary considerably in constitution and were intentionally chosen to understand the impact of the act in different school settings . The friendship surveys show strong homophily i.e . non RTE students cite other non RTE students as friends while RTE students chose to be friends primarily with other RTE students . Trends in test scores reveal that students admitted under the RTE quota score significantly lower than non RTE students . However RTE students who have a higher share of non RTE friends have better test scores suggesting that affirmative action may have a positive influence on learning outcomes for RTE children . Further we note that commitment from the school authorities and systematic monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the act will go a long way in bringing out some of the benefits that this act was designed to achieve . Our findings have important policy implications with respect to ensuring proper implementation of the Section12 of the RTE act in schools across the country .

@highlight One of the first papers to study the impact of the Right to Education Act in India on social integration in a classroom.
@highlight Students admitted through RTE quota are significantly less likely to cite non RTE students as their friends and vice versa .
@highlight Although RTE students have lower test scores those who have a higher share of non RTE friends score better.
@highlight Social segregation and difference in test scores between RTE and Non RTE is lowest in the central government schools.
@highlight Commitment from the school authorities is one of the strongest determinants of the success of the act.
