 Despite seven decades of policy thrust group based educational inequalities persist in India . The tenacious social group based stratification often proves to be a hurdle for educational participation policies to be effectively rolled out . Given these realities this study reviews all major national education policy interventions since t 1950s . Using four rounds of National Sample Survey data we analysed the pattern of educational attainments in terms of Average Years of Schooling and educational inequalities in India for the period 1994 2012 . Three indices of inequality Gini Theils enttropy and Atkinson have been constructed to study inequality by gender place of residence and social groups . . We also empirically estimated the determinants of educational attainments in India by using OLS and Tobit Models . Further using the Oaxaca Blinder Decomposition technique we analysed the educational attainment gaps between groups . The study concludes that policy interventions have done little to reduce the group based educational attainment gap and its time to place improved focus on secondary and higher education while continuing the efforts in primary education .

@highlight Indias educational attainment appears to be slow when compared globally. Even after seven decades of policy interventions educational inequality by gender palce of residents and social groups has been persistant The prevalence of these gaps varies across Indian states.
@highlight Despite constant policy initiatives socio economic factors leave a strong influence on educational attainment and its prevailing inequalities.
@highlight At the Central government level Hindu SC Hindu ST Muslim population as well as rural females still requires a policy push to overcome these inherent problems from the viewpoint of equalizing educational opportunities.
@highlight Our findingds also suggest its time to give improved focus on secondary and higher education while continuing the efforts on primary education as part of enhancing the overall participation rate.
