 Alarmed by declining enrolment in government schools and potentially adverse academic administrative and fiscal consequences associated with it policy makers in India have initiated experimenting with closure of government schools with low enrolments an exercise commonly referred to as school rationalisation . However the impact of this policy on access to schooling and learning remains empirically unexplored . Utilising ASER 2014 data this paper asks three key questions what are the characteristics of villages in which small schools are located what options would students have if small schools were to be closed and finally what are the differences in characteristics of small and non small schools Results indicate that the villages which have small schools are more disadvantaged in terms of essential public services such as all weather roads leading to village availability of government health facilities or banks and post offices . Additionally these villages are less likely to have an alternative to the small school either government or private . Results also show that small schools are much more likely to have multi grade teaching . They are less likely to have basic infrastructural facilities . Interestingly learning levels are unlikely to be different in small schools than non small schools even after controlling for child household and village attributes . Thus the analysis suggests that school rationalisation can potentially have severe consequences on childrens access to schools without any meaningful impact on learning levels in a business as usual scenario .

@highlight After focusing on expanding physical access for last few decades India is confronting the challenge of small schools and moving toward school closure or rationalisation. But
@highlight impact of such a policy remains under investigated.
@highlight Small schools are situated in villages which are relatively backward compared to the villages in which non small schools are situated. Students attending small schools have fewer alternatives in that village.
@highlight Small schools have higher probability of multi grade teaching and are less likely to have basic infrastructural facilities.
@highlight Learning outcomes of students in small schools are not different than that of students in non small schools.
@highlight School rationalisation is likely to have adverse consequences on childrens access to schooling without any gains as far as learning levels are concerned.
