 Global education goals have many aims among them universal basic schooling universal literacy and numeracy and gender equality . We use unique nationally representative data on adult learning outcomes to examine the link between schooling and literacy in ten low and middle income countries . We simulate scenarios of increasing school grade attainment increasing learning per year and achieving gender equality and examine learning outcomes in each . In six of the ten countries only about half or less of younger adults with primary completion as their highest schooling can read a few sentences without help . Simulations show that achieving universal primary completion would still leave many adults functionally illiterate in India nearly a third of adults would still be unable to read . Our simulations further show that while achieving equality of schooling attainment would produce improvements in womens literacy in many countries this would still leave a third of women unable to read . Gender equality of learning per year produces very little gain as once in school girls learning nearly matches that of boys . In nearly all countries steepening the learning profiles for all students to the best performing of the ten countries would lead to greater gains in literacy for women than achieving gender equality in both schooling and learning . Achieving learning for all will require both eliminating gender gaps but also improving how much is learned while in school .

@highlight Adult learning outcomes show that in many developing countries half or less of young adults with primary schooling and no higher are functionally literate.
@highlight Achieving gender equality of schooling would produce only small improvements in womens literacy.
@highlight Gender equality of learning per year actually reduces womens literacy in some countries as once in school girls learn more than boys.
@highlight In nearly all countries steepening the learning profiles for all students to the best performing of the ten countries produces the largest learning gains.
