 This study is an attempt to tackle the changes in challenges associated with the education of the last three generations of the cobbler community in Mumbai . Data for this study has obtained using snowball sampling methods from 733 respondents of the cobbler community . The result indicates that most cobblers of the first generation were illiterate . On the opposite however a hundred percent of men and ninety seven percent of women of the younger generation became literate . This community has suffered from casteism in schooling having an education was not easy for them and they had to do much struggle in their educational life . Before and after school college the last two generations assisted their fathers in cobbling work they even had to do part time jobs work to meet their financial needs for continuing education . While there is a legacy of struggle and hard work for education the young generation of cobblers is seeking to overcome certain socio economic obstacles in order to achieve a brighter future for reaching their goals . As a result there is upward educational mobility between generations with an overwhelming desire to change the current social standing .

@highlight Most cobblers of the first generation both male and female were illiterate. On the opposite however a hundred percent of men and ninety seven percent of women of the younger generation became literate.
@highlight This community has suffered from casteism in schooling having an education was not easy for them and they had to do much struggle in their educational life. Before and after school college the last two generations assisted their fathers in cobbling work they even had to do part time jobs work to meet their financial needs for continuing education.
@highlight While there is a legacy of struggle and hard work for education the young generation of cobblers is seeking to overcome certain socio economic obstacles in order to achieve a brighter future for reaching their goals.
@highlight There is upward educational mobility between generations with an overwhelming desire to change the current social standing. First and second generation were more biased than the males with respect to educating the women. Recently there has been some increase in the educational levels among third generation females. Many third generation males and females who have left schooling or are still in school or college always go hungry with the girls being more vulnerable than boys.
@highlight As the educational level has increased with each successive generation the relationships with peers from other caste groups have strengthened. The willingness to take responsibilities seems indicative of confidence in the youths of cobbler community and readiness to move forward. There are more hopes among younger they wanted to pursue higher education and acquire professional qualifications which would enable them to get government jobs or another high paying professional career.
