 The growing prevalence of artificial intelligence and digital media in childrens lives provides them with the opportunity to interact with novel non human agents such as robots and voice assistants . Previous studies show that children eagerly adopt and interact with these technologies but we have only limited evidence of childrens distinction between artificial intelligence and humans . In this study the communication patterns and prosocial outcomes of interactions with voice assistants were investigated . Children between 5 and 6 years of age solved a treasure hunt in either a human or voice assistant condition . During the treasure hunt the interaction partner supplied information either about their knowledge of or experience with the objects . Afterwards children were administered a sharing task and a helping task . Results revealed that children provided voice assistants with less information than humans and that only the type of information given by a human interaction partner was related to childrens information selection . Sharing was influenced by an interaction between type of information and interaction partner showing that the type of information shared influenced childrens decisions more when interacting with a human but less when interacting with a voice assistant . Children in all conditions enjoyed the treasure hunt with the interaction partner . Overall these results suggest that children do not impose the same expectations on voice assistants as they do on humans . Consequently cooperation between humans and cooperation between humans and computers differ .

@highlight We ask Do children distinguish between voice assistants and humans 
@highlight We investigate the cooperation in communication and social interactions.
@highlight Children communicate less with voice assistants during a treasure hunt.
@highlight Prosocial sharing and helping depends on empathic concern in humans but not voice assistants.
@highlight Children do not impose the same expectations on voice assistants as they do on humans.
