 We conducted a multi study mixed methods longitudinal investigation to examine how mobile technology diffuses across the lifespan in real time within a multi generational population while seeking local knowledge through community based participatory research . Using qualitative methods we examined technology adoption within and across three iterations of a nine wave longitudinal community technology training workshop situated within a 15 wave study . In parallel we interrogated existing conceptualization and operationalization of diffusion of technology variables then deductively evaluated the dominant DOI related variables re conceptualized through the community study in a large cross sectional quantitative investigation . We interpreted our results consistently and iteratively with a mixed methods approach that included conceptualization operationalization and empirical testing . We discovered that oft conflated concepts of knowledge use and ownership represent distinct stages of adoption . Our findings suggest constant feedback permeable boundaries between these stages and that DOI attributes may influence mobile technology adoption stages differentially . We suggest that innovators seeking to facilitate mobile technology adoption should focus on reducing complexity and establishing calibration of complexity perceptions . We propose a lifespan mobile technology diffusion model and call to question the language used in investigations related to the digital divide . We strive to clarify labels that may stereotype vulnerable populations such as older adults . Our research contributes to theories of technology adoption particularly after the introduction of digital communication the diffusion of innovations in the community over time and technology adoption process as affected by interpersonal communication and relationships including among the technologically undercapitalized and the digitally privileged .

@highlight DOI attributes may influence mobile technology adoption stages differentially.
@highlight Constant feedback permeable boundaries exist between adoption stages.
@highlight Lifespan differences between attributes and stages require different approaches.
@highlight To facilitate technology adoption calibrate and reduce complexity perceptions.
@highlight Consider effect of digital divide labeling that reinforces unintentional bias.
