 This study examines the persuasion mechanism in product recommendations made by a voice based conversational agent and explores whether the personalized content reflecting the customer s preferences and the agent s social role of a friend rather than a secretary generate a more positive attitude toward the product in the context of voice shopping . With the framework of dual modes of information processing models we hypothesized that the personalization of messages would be a central route with a greater impact on attitude for products with high involvement . By contrast the social role of the conversational agent was expected to represent a peripheral route with a greater impact on products with low involvement . An experimental study was designed to test the effects of personalized content that reflected individual preferences for product attributes and a friend role of a voice agent with high and low product involvement . The results showed main effects of both personalization and the social role on building attitudes toward the product . Although no interaction effect for personalization and involvement was found there was a significant interaction effect for the social role and involvement . This study contributes to persuasion theory by extending it to the interaction with a conversational agent . For practitioners the study provides insights into the importance of the personalized content of recommendations and the need for consideration of an alternative social role in the design of voice shopping through a conversational agent .

@highlight Personalized messages through a voice agent are effective for building positive attitudes toward the product.
@highlight A friend role for a conversational voice agent is an efficacious strategy in voice shopping contexts.
@highlight Voice agents with the social role of a friend have a greater impact on positive attitude in a low involvement condition.
@highlight Customers are affected by the personalized content of recommendations regardless of product involvement.
