 The aim of the paper is to present application of the methodology to evaluate suitability acceptance and use of information technology tools for particular students as well as a case study of evaluating two IT tools widely used while studying human computer interaction design at Lithuanian Universities . These IT tools are Axure and Balsamiq Mockups . High quality IT tools should be optimised to particular students according to their personal needs e.g . learning styles . In the paper optimised IT tools should have the highest probabilistic suitability indexes for particular students according to Felder Silverman learning styles model . Personalised IT tools evaluation methodology presented in the paper is based on well known principles of Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis for identifying quality evaluation criteria Educational Technology Acceptance Satisfaction Model based on well known Unified Theory on Acceptance and Use of Technology model and probabilistic suitability indexes to identify technology s suitability to particular students needs according to their learning styles . In the paper there is also a case study of implementing the methodology in Lithuania . This methodology is applicable in real life situations where teachers have to help students to apply IT tools that are most suitable acceptable and useable for their needs and thus to improve students motivation which in its turn creates the conditions for better and more efficient education . The case study aims at analysing the results of evaluating HCI tools using this novel methodology . The methodology is one of the examples of application of Technology Enhanced Learning Research in Higher Education .

@highlight Technology Enhanced Learning Research in Higher Education.
@highlight Methodology of user centred evaluation of suitability acceptance and use of HCI tools.
@highlight IT tools optimisation to particular students according to their personal needs.
@highlight Optimised IT tools should have the highest probabilistic suitability indexes to particular students.
@highlight This case study aims at analysing the results of evaluating HCI tools using this novel methodology.
