 To increase internet traffic some online media try to attract attention by presenting pictures that cover the sexual organs of the body . However compared with naked pictures it remains unclear whether these covered pictures can evoke similar levels of sexual arousal in heterosexual young adults and category specific patterns in men . To examine the above problems this research divided female and male pictures into 4 types . Behavioral experiments eye movement technology and ERP measurements were employed to explore the different levels of sexual arousal between men and women in response to pictures of different sexes and types . The results revealed that the level of sexual arousal induced by covered pictures was significantly higher than that induced by naked pictures . There was no significant difference in the P300 amplitude of the parietal lobe between covered pictures and naked pictures but in the frontal lobe the P300 amplitude induced by covered pictures was significantly higher than that induced by naked pictures . The results indicated that unlike the process of sexual arousal induced by naked pictures the process of sexual arousal induced by covered pictures not only included the processing of visual stimuli but also required the frontal lobe to actively construct to perceive pictures of covered sexual organs as naked pictures and thus induce sexual arousal . In addition we also found that both covered pictures and naked pictures can induce category specificity in heterosexual men . On the one hand this research extends knowledge regarding sexual cognition and finds that covered pictures can also evoke category specificity in men on the other hand from the perspective of brain cognition the difference in sexual cognitive processing between covered pictures and naked pictures is recognized .

@highlight Sexual cognition of online sexual pictures.
@highlight Employ eye movement technology and ERPs to explore sexual cognition differences.
@highlight Covered pictures can cause significant sexual arousal.
@highlight Both naked and covered pictures can induce gender category specific effect.
