 This study investigated how like clicking activities on social media can signal users social endorsement behaviors which influence customerbrand relationships . Through the simple clicking of emojis consumers can engage with and express their perceptions regarding brands on social media . Researchers have paid limited attention to the direct and indirect influence of liking behaviors on users in online social networking ecosystems . Specifically how a user is influenced by others liking behaviors remains unclear . On the basis of social identity theory and signaling theory this study proposes that likes in social media contexts are a form of social endorsement . A research framework was developed to investigate the effects of two types of social endorsement namely friend endorsement and crowd endorsement over two studies . In study 1 an online survey was conducted with Facebook users recruited through convenient sampling and in study 2 an experiment was performed with participants from Amazon MTurk . This research adopted statistical analysis and fuzzy set qualitative comparative analysis to examine the influence of friend and crowd endorsement on users like clicking behavior . Results indicated that both friend and crowd endorsement exert positive influences on users like clicking behavior . Results also indicated that liking behaviors result in enhanced brand attitude customer engagement and customerbrand identification all of which facilitate purchase intention . Moreover fsQCA results supported the conjunctural causal effects of social endorsements and suggested other two conditions for such causalities .

@highlight Like clicking as a form of social endorsement SE is unique and organic.
@highlight SE is multidimensional and classified by source friend and volume crowd .
@highlight Friend and crowd endorsement positively influence a user s like clicking behavior.
@highlight SE enhances attitudes engagement brand identification and purchase intention.
@highlight Results of fsQCA supported the conjunctural causal effects of SE.
