 Drawing on communication visibility theory we examine how message transparency and network translucence influence employees knowledge sharing and hiding and in turn how those are associated with employees creativity . Applying regulatory focus theory we further examine how promotion and prevention focus moderate the effects of message transparency and network translucence on knowledge sharing and hiding . Data collected from 208 enterprise social media users indicate that message transparency is positively related to knowledge sharing while it has no association with knowledge hiding . In turn network translucence is positively related to knowledge sharing and hiding . Promotion focus positively moderates the relationship of message transparency with knowledge sharing but it exerts no moderating effect on the relationship between network translucence and knowledge sharing . Prevention focus negatively moderates the relationship of message transparency with knowledge hiding but it positively moderates the relationship between network translucence and knowledge hiding . Finally knowledge sharing is positively associated with employee creativity whereas knowledge hiding is negatively related to employee creativity . Our findings advance the understanding of communication visibility theory and regulatory focus theory in ESM contexts . For employees the findings suggest that they should share knowledge with other coworkers to improve their creativity . For organizations the findings recommend that they should implement different policies that highlight the regulatory focus of employees to facilitate their knowledge sharing and to avoid knowledge hiding .

@highlight Message transparency positively affects knowledge sharing.
@highlight Network translucence positively influences knowledge sharing and hiding.
@highlight Promotion and prevention focus exert different moderating impacts for communication visibility.
@highlight Knowledge sharing positively and hiding negatively influences creativity.
