 This study examined the role of emotional responses to experiencing age morphed images in promoting individuals attitudes toward seniors and behavioral intentions to support senior related issues . We investigated whether temporal status manipulated by using age morphing technology and the subject of images elicited different emotional responsespersonal distress and empathic concern . Drawing on the perspective taking framework we tested these emotional responses as an underlying mechanism to explain the seemingly ambivalent effects of age morphing technology . A laboratory and an online experiment was conducted on different samples Study 1 on university students and Study 2 on an extended population sample with ages ranging from 21 to 52 years . The findings for Study 1 revealed that university students exhibited a greater level of personal distress when they saw an age morphed image which led to unfavorable attitudes toward seniors . The results of Study 2 revealed that when people saw an age morphed image of another person they showed greater empathic concern than when seeing their old future image which served as a moderated mediator leading to favorable attitudes toward seniors and behavioral and financial support for the senior related issues . Unlike the finding of Study 1 the increased personal distress led to positive outcomes . In addition participants exhibited greater empathic concern which led to a higher level of supportive intentions . The results demonstrated both emotional responses could operate as potential effects of age group generating different outcomes . We discuss the theoretical and practical implications .

@highlight Emotional responses to age morphed images can influence attitudes toward seniors and supportive intentions.
@highlight For college students age morphed images generated personal distress reducing positive attitudes toward seniors.
@highlight However personal distress leads to positive outcomes for respondents from the extended population age between 21 and 52 .
@highlight For the extended population age morphed images of others than self induced greater empathic concern.
@highlight Under the image of self conditions empathic concern mediates the relationship between temporal status and dependent variables.
@highlight The emotional responses toward age morphed images and its effects can vary depending on the respondent s age.
