 Three hypotheses have been suggested to explain factors underlying Internet gaming disorder symptoms the comorbidity hypothesis highlights the presence of further psychopathologies the dilution effect hypothesis is associated with a low level of self regulation and the interpersonal impairment hypothesis focuses on the associations of social deficits . Anxiety and depression impulsivity and hostility social skills and family functioning and time spent gaming both during the week and on the weekend were assessed . Participants were 946 young people aged from 11 to 18 . Preliminary correlations indicated that higher scores in anxiety impulsiveness hostility and social skills deficit and lower scores in family functioning and more time spent gaming were associated with IGDs . The proposed theoretical model had a good fit to the data revealing that anxiety and time spent gaming on the weekend had a direct association with IGDs . Social skills and family functioning showed an indirect relationship with IGDs whereas impulsivity only showed a direct association with time spent gaming during the week . However a different set of variables was associated with IGDs depending on the gender . In girls the significant variables associated with IGDs were time spent playing video games during the week and on the weekend higher anxiety and lower family functioning . In boys direct associations between higher anxiety and hostility social skill deficits and time spent gaming on the weekend were found . Results support the three hypotheses but their applicability varied according to gender . The comorbidity hypothesis was slightly superior for girls whereas the dilution effect hypothesis was superior for boys . The factors involved in IGDs should be taken into account when designing interventions to prevent symptoms and their consequences .

@highlight Anxiety and time spent playing predicted Internet gaming disorder symptoms IGDs .
@highlight Social skills and family functioning indirectly predicted IGDs.
@highlight Lower family functioning was related with IGDs in girls.
@highlight Hostility and social skill deficits were associated with IGDs in boys.
