 This study examines cyber aggression and cyber victimization from an evolutionary perspective extending the literature by employing Latent Class Analysis to identify cyber aggression victimization status groups using proactive and reactive cyber aggression and cyber victimization as indicators and examining whether cyber aggression victimization status groups experience social advantages and disadvantages similar to those in traditional aggression research . In this study a three class model best described adolescents cyber aggression and victimization in the sample of 400 adolescents ages 1218 79.4 were uninvolved 13.1 were mixed cyber aggressor victims and 7.4 were highly reactive cyber aggressor victims . These groups contrast with those found in empirical traditional aggression research as pure cyber aggressors and cyber victims were not identified . Consistent with evolutionary theory and aggression research that suggest it has adaptive functions mixed cyber aggressor victims reported more social dominance and dating partners and highly reactive cyber aggressor victims reported more sexual partners when compared to uninvolved peers . However highly reactive cyber aggressor victims also reported more friendship anxiety and less implicit social power than the mixed and uninvolved group consistent with traditional research suggesting that reactive aggression is more strongly linked to social disadvantages and less strongly linked to social advantages than is proactive aggression . Although cyber aggression is a relatively new form of aggression an evolutionary perspective can illuminate why it continues to be a social problem despite intervention efforts .

@highlight Evolutionary functions apply to cyber aggression and victimization.
@highlight Empirical analyses show groups involved in both cyber aggression and victimization.
@highlight Cyber aggressive victim groups differ in frequency of reactive aggression.
@highlight Cyber aggression victimization is associated with social advantages.
@highlight Highly reactive cyber aggression victimization is linked to social disadvantages.
