 Despite decades of research concerning social conformity and its effects on face to face groups it is yet to be comprehensively investigated in online contexts . In our work we investigate the impact of contextual determinants and personal determinants on online social conformity . In order to achieve this we deployed an online quiz with subjective and objective multiple choice questions . For each question participants provided their answer and self reported confidence . Following this they were shown a fabricated bar chart that positioned the participant either in the majority or minority presenting the distribution of group answers across different answer options . Each question tested a unique group distribution in terms of the number of minorities against the majority and their corresponding group sizes . Subsequently participants were given the opportunity to change their answer and reported confidence . Upon completing the quiz participants undertook a personality test and participated in a semi structured interview . Our results show that 78 of the participants conformed to the majoritys answers at least once during the quiz . Further analysis reveals that the tendency to conform was significantly higher for objective questions especially when a participant was unsure of their answer and faced an opposing majority with a significant size . While we saw no significant gender differences in conformity participants with higher conscientiousness and neuroticism tended to conform more frequently than others . We conclude that online social conformity is a function of majority size nature of the task self confidence and certain personality traits .

@highlight Individuals conform more to larger majorities than smaller majorities.
@highlight The presence of minorities or their group sizes do not affect conformity behaviour.
@highlight Individuals are more likely to conform in objective tasks with a correct answer.
@highlight Individuals with higher self confidence are less likely to conform to the majority.
@highlight Individuals with higher conscientiousness and neuroticism are more likely to conform.
