 An asynchronous online discussion forum has been a prevalent means of collaborative online learning . Yet it remains challenging for instructors to identify who and how students emerge as learning leaders . To overcome this challenge this study aims to conceptualizing learning leadership in the context of online asynchronous discussions proposing a Leader Identification Method and testing the proposed method by using empirical data on how learning leaders behave differently from their peers in terms of behavioral cognitive and emotional engagement . Assuming that learning leaders emerge from social interactions in online discussions and drawing on the literature on leadership and social network analysis we conceptualized three types of learning leadership roles full facilitator transactional facilitator and attractive facilitator . These leadership roles are assumed to be associated with learners levels of engagement in behavior cognition and emotions . To that end we developed the LIM that factors in learners behavioral cognitive and emotional engagement . Using a case study method to test the LIM we collected two cohorts online interaction data as well as the data on the cohorts behavioral cognitive and emotional engagement . The results established the reliability and validity of the LIM . Specifically compared to non leaders the learning leaders exerted more transformational leadership higher cognitive engagement and more frequent emotional expression . The LIM pave the foundation for identifying learning leadership and providing pedagogical support to foster learning leadership development in online collaboration .

@highlight This study conceptualized learning leadership in the context of an online discussion.
@highlight Drawing upon the conceptual framework we proposed the Leader Identification Method LIM .
@highlight This case study leveraged mixed data to evidence the utility value of the LIM.
@highlight This study showed the potential of LIM to identify three types of online learning leaders.
@highlight The identified leaders demonstrated more transformational leadership and higher engagement.
