 E learning as a direct result of the integration of technology and education has emerged as a powerful medium of learning particularly using Internet technologies . The undeniable significance of e learning in education has led to a massive growth in the number of e learning courses and systems offering different types of services . Thus evaluation of e learning systems is vital to ensure successful delivery effective use and positive impacts on learners . Based on an intensive review of the literature a comprehensive model has been developed which provides a holistic picture and identifies different levels of success related to a broad range of success determinants . The model has been empirically validated by fitting the model to data collected from 563 students engaged with an e learning system in one of the UK universities through a quantitative method of Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling . The determinants of e learning perceived satisfaction are technical system quality information quality service quality support system quality learner quality instructor quality and perceived usefulness which together explain 71.4 of the variance of perceived satisfaction . The drivers of perceived usefulness are technical system quality information quality support system quality learner quality and instructor quality and these explain 54.2 of the variance of perceived usefulness . Four constructs were found to be the determinants of e learning use namely educational system quality support system quality learner quality and perceived usefulness and together they account for 34.1 . Finally 64.7 of the variance of e learning benefits was explained by perceived usefulness perceived satisfaction and use .

@highlight Study on evaluating e learning systems success in one of the UK universities.
@highlight Four approaches for evaluating e learning systems success.
@highlight A comprehensive model based on DeLone McLean IS model TAM e learning satisfaction models and e learning quality models.
@highlight Seven quality factors are success determinants system information service educational support learner and instructor.
@highlight Determinants of e learning benefits are perceived usefulness perceived satisfaction and use.
