 Pigs are a major food source worldwide as well as major biomedical models for human physiology and therapeutics . A thorough understanding of porcine immunity is essential to prevent and treat infectious diseases and develop effective vaccines and therapeutics . The use of pigs as biomedical models is dependent on the growing molecular and immune toolbox . This paper summarizes current knowledge of swine cytokines chemokines and growth factors identifying 289 pig proteins characterizing knowledge of their gene structures and families . It identifies areas in the current swine genome build that need to be clarified . A broad based literature and vendor search was conducted to identify defined sets of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies reacting with porcine cytokines chemokines growth factors along with availability of cloned recombinant proteins and assays for their quantitation . This process identified numerous reagents that are reportedly reactive with 170 pig cytokines chemokines growth factors 118 have at least one commercial antibody reagent 66 a cloned recombinant peptide and 97 with quantitative assays . This affirms the great need to develop and characterize additional reagents . There are panels of reagents for numerous high priority targets that have been essential reagents for characterizing porcine immunity disease and vaccine responses and factors regulating development of innate immune responses polarized macrophages and lymphoid cells including T regulatory cells . Yet there are many areas requiring investment of efforts to more effectively explore the pig immune system . The development of more reagents to understand the complex of cytokines chemokines and growth factors will clearly advance these initiatives .

@highlight Identified 289 swine cytokine chemokine growth factor proteins and annotated their gene names sequences and superfamilies.
@highlight Identified numerous commercial reagents that are reportedly reactive with 170 pig cytokines chemokines growth factors.
@highlight Showed 118 pig immune proteins have at least one Ab reagent 66 a cloned recombinant peptide and 97 quantitative assays.
@highlight Provided the porcine immune community with valuable updates on swine cytokines chemokines and growth factors.
