 Ascorbic acid is known to be an important antioxidant serving as a cofactor in collagen synthesis and thus facilitates follicular growth in the ovary . Many studies have shown that AA is synthesized in the liver and transported to other organs including ovary however there is no direct evidence of ascorbic acid synthesis in the ovary . Hence we examined the expression pattern of different proteins involved in the AA synthesis in pre pubertal rat which showed significant expression of these proteins suggesting the synthesis of AA in the ovary . Accumulation of AA in the ovary during follicular growth has been well demonstrated . However the effect of Pregnant Mare Serum Gonadotropin on the AA synthesis in the ovary has not been studied in detail . Hence to decipher the effect different doses of PMSG were injected subcutaneously into the pre pubertal female rats and ovarian AA level was measured after 48h . A significant increase in AA content was observed in PMSG treated animal groups . Further to understand the mechanism underlying ovarian AA accumulation the expression levels of SMP30 GNL and GULO genes were measured . Expression of both the genes was significantly suppressed which suggested a lowered AA synthesis in the PMSG treated rat ovary . For further understanding mRNA expression of AA transporters SVCT1 and SVCT2 encoded by SLC23A1 and SLC23A2 genes respectively were measured which showed increased level of SVCT1 expression . These observations suggested that the increased AA content might not be due to increased synthesis of AA within the ovary but possibly due to increased uptake from blood during the stimulation of follicular growth .

@highlight Expression of proteins involved in the AA synthesis suggests the synthesis of AA in rat ovary.
@highlight Although PMSG injection increases AA content the expression of SMP30 GNL and GULO genes shows marked decrease.
@highlight SVCT1 expression is increased in the PMSG treated samples.
@highlight The increased AA content is due to increased uptake from blood during the stimulation of follicular growth.
