 The atlantoaxial joint can be affected by instability in most cases a congenital pathology in young small breed dogs . Causes of atlantoaxial instability are variable but are usually attributed to a lack of ligamentous support . The purpose of the present study was to specify the role of the ligamentous structures in the stabilisation of the atlantoaxial joint and to find possible adaptations of the ligaments internal structure to their specific function . Five Beagle cadavers were included in this study . Each dog was subjected to a computed tomography and a magnetic resonance imaging examination of the upper cervical region . This region was then dissected and the ligamentous structures stabilising the atlantoaxial joint were measured and removed for histological analysis . A ligament to dens ratio was established in order to provide a basis for comparison with the measurements taken in other dog breeds . MRI and gross anatomical measurements were very similar confirming the validity of the results . MRI thus seems reliable for evaluating the ligamentous structures of the canine occipitoatlantoaxial region . The movement exerting the greatest stress on the atlantoaxial ligaments and inducing the greatest distension of the alar ligaments was a head flexion combined with a rotation . A clear adaptation of the ligamentous shape and internal structure to their specific function was observed . Histologically alar ligaments consisted of wavy collagen fibres and a high proportion of elastic fibres providing them with a remarkable elasticity compared to the transverse ligament structure which was much more rigid .

@highlight MRI reveals all the ligamentous structures of the atlantoaxial joint.
@highlight Head flexion with rotation results in maximum distension of the alar ligaments.
@highlight Histologically the transverse ligaments structure was particularly homogeneous.
@highlight Alar and transverse ligaments differ in amount and distribution of elastic fibres.
@highlight The ligaments internal structure is closely related to their specific function.
