 Transboundary Animal Diseases affecting ungulates are potentially epidemic diseases that are contagious or transmissible and a concern for humans worldwide . While globalization has led to increased containment efforts at a global scale additional local attention is needed as well for vulnerable pastoralist communities that are in close proximity to livestock . We reviewed and then summarized outbreaks cases and deaths for 3 TADs Foot and Mouth Disease and Rift Valley Fever affecting domestic and wild ungulates for all African countries from 1996 to 2018 by compiling data from two World Organization for Animal Health databases . For ASF 22 countries had no data . Countries with the most ASF case were Benin Democratic Republic of Congo Madagascar Malawi and Nigeria . Greatest reported ASF cases in a year was Benin in 1997 Madagascar in 1998 and Democratic Republic of Congo in 2011 . For FMD 10 countries had no data . Countries with the most FMD cases were Burkina Faso Tanzania Zambia Ethiopia and Benin . Greatest reported FMD cases in a year was Zambia in 2004 . For RVF 34 countries had no data . Countries with the most RVF were Tanzania South Africa Rwanda Mauritania and Kenya . Greatest reported RVF cases in a single year was Tanzania in 2007 and South Africa in 2010 . Our spatio temporal summary of these TADs can inform global containment strategies and prioritize local education efforts . Combined this review enhances global awareness of TAD trends while facilitating education at the local level to prevent the risk of animal to human zoonosis through animal handling and management decisions .

@highlight Transboundary Animal Diseases TADs are a global concern with local implications.
@highlight We summarized outbreaks cases and deaths for 3 TADs in Africa from 1996 to 2018.
@highlight African Swine Fever was reported most in Benin and Democratic Republic of Congo.
@highlight Foot and Mouth Disease was reported most in Burkina Faso Tanzania Zambia and Ethiopia.
@highlight Rift Valley Fever was reported most in Tanzania South Africa Rwanda and Mauritania.
