 The present work characterized the metabolomic profile of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in healthy horses experimentally induced airway inflammation by lipopolysaccharide nebulization and naturally occurring asthma . All animals underwent clinical and upper airway endoscopic examinations and bronchoalveolar lavage . BALF supernatant samples were subjected to metabolic analysis based on gas chromatographymass spectrometry . Overall 67 peaks were obtained from BALF GC MS analysis corresponding to 53 metabolites which were categorized according to chemical class such as organic acids fatty acids nucleosides or their derivatives amino acids peptides or their derivatives carbohydrates and other compounds . Our results showed that the airway inflammation induction model with LPS produced the same pattern of metabolite changes as in horses with naturally occurring asthma . Metabolic pathway analysis was done by means of Fisher s exact test for detection of metabolites over represented in asthma affected horses and LPS induced airway inflammation as compared with healthy horses . The most significant altered metabolic pathways were fatty acid biosynthesis galactose metabolism and citrate cycle . These results suggest that the airway inflammation induction model with LPS is a good study model for asthma affected horses due to the similarity of the profile of inflammatory cells and similar metabolic alterations found in BALF that occur during the inflammatory process of the airways . Further research may increase understanding of metabolomics disturbances and their significance in the pathogenesis of equine asthma .

@highlight Airway inflammation induction model with LPS produced the same pattern of metabolite changes as in horses with asthma.
@highlight The most significant altered metabolic pathways were fatty acid biosynthesis galactose metabolism and citrate cycle
@highlight LPS airway inflammation is a good equine asthma study model due to similarities in metabolic and inflammatory cell changes
