 The characterization of vaginal microbiota will help to understand some of the reproductive problems and mechanisms to improve cattle reproduction . The objective of this study was to characterize the vaginal microbiota of cyclical Holstein cows with different parturition orders using 16S rDNA sequencing . Animals were submitted to an estrus synchronization protocol with the use of intravaginal progesterone implants and were treated or not with ceftiofur hydrochloride . DNA samples were extracted from vaginal swabs on day 0 and 10 of the synchronization and sequenced with the Illumina MiSeq platform with an average coverage rate of 10.000 reads per samples using a Single End library for fragments of 300bp . The main bacterial phyla found in the vaginal tract of Holstein cows were Firmicutes Tenericutes Proteobacteria and Bacteriodetes followed by Actinobacteria and Spirochaetae . The use of intravaginal P4 devices has increased the relative abundance of the genera Family XIII AD3011 and Family XIII unclassified . We have also observed an effect of the number of calving on the vaginal microbiota composition showing that multiparous cows have a greater bacterial diversity than primiparous animals . The use of ceftiofur hydrochloride was effective to reduce the vaginal bacteria proliferation . This study describes for the first time the vaginal microbiota of cows synchronized with intravaginal progesterone devices different from the traditional methods such as microbiological culture and biochemical tests . We have identified a large number of microorganisms commonly found in the gastrointestinal tract of cows colonizing the vaginal microbiota .

@highlight Microbial characterization of vaginal tract of Holstein cows synchronized with intra vaginal progesterone device.
@highlight The use of ceftiofur hydrochloride in the modulation of the vaginal microbial comunity in Holstein cattle.
@highlight Microbial characterization of vaginal Tract of Holstein cows and heifers.
