 The dairy value chain of Nairobi is comprised in its majority of small scale independent enterprises that operate within a complex interlinked system . In this complexity the coordination and power structures of the system may have major influences on the management of dairy food safety . Therefore the aim of this study was to investigate the governance structure and challenges faced by stakeholders throughout the Nairobi dairy value chain and assess their potential implications on food safety . Qualitative data were collected through focus group discussions and key informant interviews based on a dairy value chain mapping framework previously developed . Thematic analysis enabled identification of governance themes key challenges and analysis of their implications on food safety . Themes were organized depending on their association with farmers dairy cooperatives dairy traders processing companies retailers or government officers . The identified governance themes included i weak linkage between government and farmers ii inadequate compliance with government regulations by traders and retailers iii emphasis on business licenses and permits for revenue rather than for food safety iv multiple licensing resulting in high business cost and lack of compliance v fragmented regulation vi unfair competition and vii sanctions that do not always result in compliance . The key challenges identified included among others i inadequate farmer support ii harassment of traders and retailers and iii high business costs for traders retailers dairy cooperatives and large processors . The implication of governance and challenges of food safety were among others i inadequate extension services ii insufficient cold chain iii delivery of adulterated and low milk quality to bulking centers iv inadequate food safety training and v lack of policies for management of waste milk . The range of issues highlighted are based on stakeholders perceptions and reflects the complexity of the relationships between them . Many of the governance themes demonstrate the linkages that are both beneficial or confrontational between the formal and informal sectors and between industry and regulatory authorities with possible direct food safety consequences . Findings obtained provide indications to decision makers of potential governance areas that could help improve efficiency and food safety along the dairy value chain .

@highlight Governance challenges and their linkages to food safety have been identified.
@highlight Fragmented and costly multiple government licenses identified as barrier to complying with rules and regulations.
@highlight Business licenses and permits seen as avenues for revenue collection and less for food safety.
@highlight Unfair competition in the dairy system discouraged optimal best food safety practices.
