 China is among the worlds largest consumers of antibiotics for livestock and the demand for meat protein continues to rise . Pig production takes place at a range of facilities including backyard pig farms . The aim of this study was to describe the knowledge attitudes and practices of backyard pig farmers concerning antibiotic use and resistance and to observe household storage of antibiotics for use in pigs . We conducted a cross sectional questionnaire survey among 271 rural residents with backyard pig farms in 12 villages in one town in Shandong province . The median number of pigs per backyard farm was 14 and 82 of participants reported not having had any training about raising pigs . Eighteen percent of participants reported always or often adding antibiotics to feed to keep pigs healthy and prevent diseases and a third of participants believed that pigs should be given antibiotics when they stop eating . Thirty percent reported having bought antibiotics in the previous year without having first spoken with a veterinarian . Antibiotics accounted for over half of all medicines stored and were observed in 31 of all households . Less than half of participants from households in which antibiotics for pig use were found knew that they were storing antibiotics . The most common class of antibiotics stored for use in pigs was J01C beta lactam antibiotics penicillins followed by J01F macrolides lincosamides and streptogramins and J01M quinolones . These results provide important insights into how backyard pig farmers are using antibiotics in rural China and suggest potential targets for interventions to reduce unnecessary and inappropriate use .

@highlight Most backyard pig farmers had little training on raising pigs.
@highlight Farmers had low knowledge on antibiotics.
@highlight Farmers reported engaging in several irrational antibiotic use practices.
@highlight Household storage of antibiotics for pig use was common.
@highlight These results provide targets for interventions to improve antibiotic use.
