 This article problematises the ways in which behavioural change by poor individuals dominates the global discussions on means to tackle issues caused by systemic problems . We do so by focusing on the case of animal diseases a symptom of many systematic failures . While livestock farming has long been praised as a mitigating factor against poverty livestock diseases threaten the lives and livelihoods of poor and marginalised people who depend on animals . Aiming at controlling animal diseases policy makers tend to focus on behavioural change by individual farmers by enhancing their knowledge . We conducted an in depth qualitative research among pig farmers in Myanmar a country that is rapidly increasing livestock production to document contextual and systematic constraints that influence farmers understandings and perceptions of disease related risks and household level decisions to invest in animal disease control . We conducted in depth interviews focus group discussions and participant observation in three townships in the Yangon region . Structural constraints such as weak veterinary health system and limited access to low interest credit prevent farmers from gaining necessary knowledge about disease prevention and make them economically vulnerable . These systematic constraints drive behaviours considered risky for disease emergence and spread . As a result many small and medium scale farmers in low and middle income countries remain trapped in a vicious cycle of poverty and ill health for both animals and humans . We conclude that instead of focusing on individual behavioural change interventions need to combine enhancing knowledge by individual farmers and tackling economic and structural constraints that limit their agency and ability to address practices that are considered risky .

@highlight Myanmars pig farmers have little access to scientific knowledge of pig diseases.
@highlight As a result their understandings of disease risks to human health are limited.
@highlight Livestock households attend closely to diseases affecting animal health income.
@highlight Structural factors drive behaviours increasing long term economic disease risks.
@highlight Behaviours would not change unless the structural factors are addressed.
