 Traumatic reticuloperitonitis in cattle is caused by ingested nails pieces of wire and other nonmetallic materials that injure the reticular wall . Clinical signs of acute TRP may include anorexia fever drop in milk production rumen atony and tympany abdominal pain an arched back a tucked up and guarded abdomen and spontaneous grunting but may be obscure or absent in chronic cases . Haematological findings alone are not diagnostic but total and differential white blood cell counts the concentration of fibrinogen and total protein and the glutaraldehyde coagulation time may indicate inflammation associated with TRP . The clinical examination is aimed at eliciting a grunt in response to foreign body tests such as back grip pole test or pain percussion . Inflammatory changes of the reticulum and adjacent organs and impairment of reticular motility are characteristic features of TRP and can be detected via ultrasonography . Radiography is the technique of choice for the visualisation of metallic foreign bodies and for monitoring the efficacy of a magnet . Treatment may be conservative or surgical but in most cases initial treatment is conservative with administration of a magnet and antibiotics . If the cow fails to respond to medical treatment surgical treatment is the next option other than euthanasia and ideally is carried out after imaging of the reticulum . If this is not feasible a second magnet and continuation of antibiotic treatment is recommended .

@highlight The clinical signs of traumatic reticuloperitonitis are characteristic in acute cases but may be vague or absent in chronic cases.
@highlight Haematological findings white blood cell count fibrinogen total solids alone are not diagnostic.
@highlight Inflammatory changes in the reticulum and adjacent organs can be detected with ultrasonography.
@highlight Radiography allows metallic foreign bodies to be visualised and treatment efficacy to be monitored.
@highlight Treatment can be conservative magnet and antibiotics or surgical foreign body removal .
