 Gm APD is widely used in the LIDAR for its excellent photon detection capability . However the low SNR limits the laser echo s triggering probability and enhances the false alarm probability in the daytime which severely affects the target s detection results moreover it increases the difficulty of the signal reconstruction algorithm . So it s an important path to relieve the algorithm s burden and get a better detection results by fundamentally increasing the echo s SNR . Nevertheless there is a lack of researches discussing such issue especially for array imaging detection . In this paper it was proposed that by using the polarization detection could help to enhance the echo s SNR and get good detection results in the daytime . By combining polarization bi directional reflection distribution function Mueller matrix LIDAR equation and Poisson models the polarization Gm APD LIDAR detection model was first established to describe the received Stokes vector as well as the triggering and false alarm probabilities which could aid in the daytime polarization detection including polarization analysis depolarization contrast analysis detection probabilities analysis and the feasibility of the models was supported by the simulation and experimental results . Based on the established model the triggering properties of the Gm APD LIDAR with the polarization system were discussed and the theoretical analysis showed that the optimal detection angle was 135 at which the polarization detection could effectively increase the triggering probability and lower the false alarm probability . A series of outdoor experimental verifications were carried out and the experimental results showed that the proposed Gm APD polarization detection model and the theoretical analysis were absolutely correct . Besides compared with the non polarization detection the intensity image of optimal polarization detection could completely obtain the targets contour moreover the triggering probabilities of two targets increased by 4.9 and 7.1 respectively and the false alarm probabilities lowered by 26.3 and 21.4 . It made great improvement in the Gm APD detection research . This work offers the theoretical and experimental supports for enhancing Gm APD LIDAR s detection results in the daytime by using polarization detection furthermore it can lay some theoretical foundations for target recognition of Gm APD polarization detection .

@highlight Polarization detection is first implemented in the Gm APD LIDAR.
@highlight The polarization Gm APD LIDAR ranging equation is first proposed.
@highlight The proposed polarization Gm APD detection model fits the experiment data well.
@highlight The polarization detection can efficiently enhance the Gm APD detection results in the daytime.
