 In recent studies the nature and magnitude of the temperature gradients developed in ultra high pressure liquid chromatography were found to be dependent on the heat conductivity properties of the column matrices but also on the principle used for controlling the temperature over the column . Here we investigated the potential of using highly heat conductive diamond based stationary phases for reducing the temperature gradients . The stationary phases investigated were a Diamond Analytics FLARE column based on particles comprised of a graphite core surrounded by a very thin diamond shell and two silica hybrid columns a core shell silica Kromasil Eternity Shell column and a fully porous silica Kromasil Eternity XT column . Models were developed based on two dimensional heat transfer theory and mass transfer theory which were used to model the temperature profiles and the migration of an analyte band accounting for column efficiencies at different flow rates . For the silica based columns using water controlled temperature mode the temperature gradients along the column axes are suppressed whereas temperature gradients in the radial direction prevails resulting in decreased column efficiencies . Using these columns with air controlled temperature mode the radial temperature gradients are reduced whereas temperature gradients along the column prevails resulting in decreased retention times . With the Diamond FLARE column there was no loss in column efficiency using the water controlled temperature mode and the van Deemter curves are almost identical using both temperature control modes . Thus for the Diamond FLARE column in contrast to the silica based columns there are almost no losses of column efficiencies due to reduced radial temperature gradients independent on how the column temperature was controlled .

@highlight In UHPLC significant temperature gradients are generated over the columns.
@highlight In diamond columns cores of graphite vs. classical silica particles were compared.
@highlight Diamond columns have 100 times larger heat conductivity than silica based columns.
@highlight This eliminates radial gradients even with water based temperature control.
@highlight To enhance column performance the adsorbent should have high heat conductivity.
