 Dyadic Green s function for a multilayered spherical structure with alternating graphene dielectric shells is extracted in this paper . To this end the unknown expansion coefficients of the scattering superposition method are obtained by considering graphene local surface currents at the interface of two adjacent layers . To validate the formulas the procedure of Mie scattering analysis employing our formulas is clarified and the extinction efficiencies of various graphene based nanoparticles are computed . The possibility of using the proposed structure in the design of multi band optical absorbers is discussed in detail . Moreover a closed form formula for obtaining the Purcell factor of a radial dipole emitter in the presence of a graphene based layered sphere is introduced . The analysis is followed by an example illustrating the possibility of dual band enhancement of the Purcell factor using a graphene based core shell particle . Finally the procedure of calculating the energy transfer between the donor acceptor pairs with arbitrary locations are clarified . The research can be potentially used in the fast and efficient analysis of a wide class of novel optical devices with the arbitrary source of excitation .

@highlight The scattering analysis of graphene based multilayered spherical structures is extended for the analysis of arbitrary sources by introducing some extra expansion coefficients thus calculating corresponding Green s function.
@highlight The procedure of Mie analysis as a special case of Green s function analysis is proved and multiband absorber design is discussed as the application.
@highlight The effect of the interlayer permittivity on the optical response is disclosed in detail.
@highlight Purcell factor calculation using the extracted Green s function is discussed as another instance. In this case the field and source points coincide.
@highlight Energy transfer between donor acceptor pairs of arbitrary locations can also be analyzed with the introduced unified formulas.
