 The incorporation of ion mobility into LCMS analysis has been demonstrated to result in the generation of superior quality MS and MS MS spectral data as well as providing enhanced resolution in the IM dimension based on lipid class . Here a sub 4 min microbore LC ion mobility accurate mass MS method has been developed for the rapid profiling of lipids in biological fluids . The method was scaled directly from a conventional 12 min LC MS analysis maintaining the chromatographic performance and lipid separation observed in the longer methodology giving a 75 saving in mobile phase consumption and analysis time . Because of the additional dimension of separation provided by IM improvements in mass spectral quality from the increased resolution of co eluting species were also seen when compared to the same separation without IM thus aiding the identification of target lipids . When applied to human plasma samples some 5037 and 2020 mass retention time features were detected following adduct deconvolution and of these 3727 and 800 of those present in the pooled plasma QC samples had a CV of below 30 for positive and negative ESI modes respectively . The method was applied to the analysis of a pilot set of commercially sourced breast cancer plasma samples enabling the differentiation of samples from healthy controls and patients based on their lipid phenotypes . Analysis of the resulting data showed that phosphatidylcholines triglycerides and diglycerides exhibited lower expression and phosphatidylserine showed increased expression in the breast cancer samples compared to those of healthy subjects . The coefficients of variation determined by reference to the QC data for all of the features identified as potential markers of disease were 6 or less .

@highlight A rapid microbore UHPLCIMMS method for profiling lipids is described.
@highlight This provides lipid class separation a 75 reduction in solvent usage and run time.
@highlight Plasma extracts showed differences between controls and breast cancer patients.
@highlight Reduced PC TAG and DAG concentrations and higher PS expression in study samples.
@highlight Coefficients of variation of potential disease markers were 6 or less.
