 The accuracy of absorption based measurement is directly linked to the fidelity of the pressure and temperature dependent reference absorption cross sections used for fitting and data interpretation . For large complex molecules or species for which line by line absorption databases do not exist cross sections are often measured in the laboratory at a particular set of known temperature and pressure conditions and published for use as reference spectra . For subsequent simulations or measurements at conditions between or outside of the reference conditions no exact reference cross sections exist . We propose a technique which enables the scaling of reference absorption cross sections to different pressures . Pressure influences the shape of the cross section through collisional broadening . We modify the collisional broadening of the cross section by performing an inverse Fourier transform on the dataset to view the free induction decay of the molecule and then computationally adjusting the decay rate of the FID . This effectively pressure scales the broadening parameters of the multitude of contributing molecular resonances . The technique is validated here against reference absorption cross sections and can yield residuals between modified and measured reference spectra below one percent . The approach is simple to apply and allows users to generate reference cross sections at any pressure above the pressure condition of the reference dataset . It therefore also significantly reduces the need to measure reference absorption cross sections at many pressures .

@highlight Technique to broaden absorption cross section datasets to higher pressure conditions without knowledge of individual line parameters.
@highlight Based on scaling the exponential decay envelope of the molecular free induction decay formed from the inverse fourier transform of an absorption cross section at a particular pressure.
@highlight Validated for three complex molecules using published absorption cross section data at different pressure conditions.
