 Recent studies have shown that by combining orthogonal non affinity chromatography steps it is possible to rapidly develop efficient purification processes for molecules of interest . Here we build upon previous work to develop a flexible framework for identifying resins that remove optimally orthogonal sets of impurities for a wide variety of products . Our approach involves screening a library of proteins with diverse properties on a library of resins and quantifying each resins ability to separate every protein pair in the library . Orthogonality is then defined as the degree to which two resins separate mutually exclusive sets of protein pairs . We applied this approach to a library of model proteins and a series of strong salt tolerant and multimodal ion exchangers and evaluated which resin combinations performed well and which performed poorly . In particular we found that strong cation and strong anion exchangers were orthogonal while strong and salt tolerant anion exchangers were not orthogonal . Interestingly salt tolerant and multimodal cation exchangers were found to be orthogonal and the best resin combination included a multimodal cation exchange resin and a tentacular anion exchange resin . This approach for quantifying orthogonality is valuable in that it can be used both as a criteria for resin design as well as process design . We envision that using this framework it will be possible to design a set of next generation chromatography ligands that are explicitly engineered to optimize separability and orthogonality .

@highlight Developed a framework to identify resins that remove orthogonal sets of impurities.
@highlight Screened protein resin libraries and quantified each resins performance.
@highlight Cation and anion exchangers were orthogonal.
@highlight Strong and salt tolerant anion ion exchangers were not orthogonal.
@highlight Salt tolerant and multimodal cation exchangers were orthogonal.
@highlight Our framework facilitates engineering resins to optimize separability orthogonality.
