 From an environmental perspective searching for useful compounds in agri food by products by employing inefficient and polluting analytical procedures is paradoxical . This work aimed to develop a green simplified and highly efficient experimental setup for extracting and tentatively identifying the broadest range of metabolites in sugarcane solid by products collected directly within the industrial mills . Nine different extraction approaches were investigated side by side including three reference methods . Based on the extraction and environmental performances assessed by two complementary metrics called Analytical Eco Scale and the Analytical Greenness Calculator it was possible to reach two highly efficient two liquid phase extractions while avoiding harmful solvents and traditional time energy and solvent consuming sample preparation steps such as solvent evaporation metabolite concentration re suspension and derivatization . The simultaneously produced hydroethanolic and n heptane extracts were directly analyzed by ultra high performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography both coupled to mass spectrometry respectively leading to the annotation of a large dynamic range of compounds from information rich spectral data . Up to 111 metabolites were identified in a single matrix from highly polar sucrose to nonpolar wax ester C53 in a single extraction . Orientin apigenin 6 C glucosylrhamnoside 1 octacosanol octacosanal and other bioactive compounds were identified in these abundantly available by products which are currently just burned to produce energy . The best two methods developed here

@highlight Two experimental procedures for metabolite profiling complex matrices were proposed.
@highlight Time energy and solvent consuming sample preparation steps were eliminated.
@highlight A large dynamic range of compounds was annotaded from information rich spectrum.
@highlight Greener low cost easy to use and HPLC UV MS and GC MS compatible solvents were used.
@highlight The greenness of the proposed procedures was confirmed by multifactor metrics.
