 The off flavor compounds geosmin and 2 methylisoborneol are well known to impact the quality of farmed freshwater fish species but little is known about off flavors in marine aquaculture . To begin addressing this knowledge gap a method for determining geosmin and 2 MIB using LC with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization MS detection was developed . While 2 MIB was readily detected using LC APCI MS geosmin exhibited on column degradation that was independent of column chemistry and could not be eliminated . Optimized conditions were identified that balanced the separation and ionization efficiency of 2 MIB and geosmin while minimizing geosmin degradation but the overall method sensitivity for geosmin was reduced by the on column losses . The method was used with direct aqueous injections to determine the volatilization rates of geosmin and 2 MIB at ppb levels during aeration under laboratory conditions in both salt water and pure water to simulate marine and fresh water aquaculture respectively . The volatilization rates of both compounds were 30 faster in salt water than in fresh water with or without aeration but aeration was found to enhance the rate by a factor of 2.5 in both water types . The LC APCI MS method was combined with stir bar sorptive extraction to achieve greater sensitivity for determining off flavors in recirculating aquaculture system water . Using SBSE LC APCI MS the LODs for geosmin and 2 MIB were 70ng kg and 6ng kg respectively . The on column losses resulted in a relatively high LOD for geosmin that renders this method unsuitable for determining geosmin at the low ng kg levels expected in RAS . SBSE using both grab water samples and an in situ diving unit were used to evaluate 2 MIB levels in the culture water of two separate marine RAS that were supporting the growth of European sea bass but had differing levels of water treatment . 2 MIB was readily detected using both SBSE approaches in the RAS with less sophisticated treatment when the animal stocking density was at its highest 50kg m

@highlight First LC APCI MS method for determining geosmin and 2 MIB was developed.
@highlight Method is sensitive for 2 MIB but has limited applicability for geosmin due to losses.
@highlight Aeration enhances volatilization of geosmin and 2 MIB from both pure and salt water.
@highlight SBSE LC APCI MS with grab and in situ samples can determine 2 MIB in RAS water.
@highlight The degree of water treatment in marine RAS influences 2 MIB levels in culture water.
