 Monitoring fine mode aerosol pollutants is one of priorities in national environmental programs . Aerosol Optical Depth and fine mode AOD are key parameters for estimation of particulate matter . POLDER GRASP retrieval provides probably the most detailed aerosol products globally for 2005 2013 . Current studies are focused on understanding the value of new satellite products for potential monitoring of air quality over China . As part of this objective the quantitative evaluation of the products over China a statistical comparison of total AOD fine mode AOD and Fine Mode Fraction with SunSky Radiometer Observation Network products is conducted . Two of available POLDER aerosol products GRASP models and high precision were evaluated at 8 SONET sites over China in this study . The results show the best agreement of the total AOD at 490nm from models approach with AOD from SONET with correlation coefficient of 0.96 slope of 0.9 RMSE of 0.14 and bias of 0.04 with about 76 of retrievals inside of Gfrac ranges . The validation results of the fine mode AOD at 490nm with AOD the fine mode SONET SDA product are quite comparable for both high precision and models approaches with slightly better results for high precision data showing correlation coefficient of 0.95 slope of 0.78 RMSE of 0.14 and bias of 0.07 with about 68 of retrievals inside of Gfrac ranges . The analysis is demonstrated that POLDER GRASP results are one of most suitable aerosol products for characterization of FMF of aerosol . For example compared with MODIS the FMF from POLDER GRASP is significantly closer to SONET SDA FMF with Gfrac increasing from 16.75 to 62.35 . Moreover there is a clear similarity of spatial distribution of the fine mode AOD from GRASP with ground level PM

@highlight A statistical comparison of GRASP total AOD fine mode AOD and Fine Mode Fraction FMF with SunSky Radiometer Observation Network SONET products over China was conducted.
@highlight Both GRASP models and GRASP high precision products were evaluated at 8 SONET sites.
@highlight Both SONET SDA and SONET IP retrievals were compared with GRASP fine mode AOD.
@highlight The comparison between MODIS FMF and GRASP FMF was conducted.
