 Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 gene expresses a transmembrane glycoprotein that is over expressed in 1530 breast 3 lung and other several digestive cancers . So HER2 is a good biomarker for tumor diagnostic and treatment monitoring . Clinically detection of HER2 often employs invasive approaches with tissue samples which at large extent limit its universal application . Shedding of the extracellular domain of the HER2 into the circulation has led to the development of a serum test of HER2 ECD as an additional approach to probe the HER2 overexpression . However few methods were developed due to the high sensitivity required by the serum HER2 ECD determination . In this work we prepared a novel immunoaffinity in tube solid phase microextraction sorbent for selective enrichment of HER2 ECD . Two clinical available monoclonal antibodies against to HER2 trastuzumab and pertuzumab were selected as immunoaffinity ligands . Porous layer open tubular capillary with oriented antibody immobilization were fabricated and systematically optimized to afford a higher extraction capacity . The capacity was reached to 120.4g m which is more than 1000 times higher than that obtained by a common method . After sample extraction and enrichment by the IT SPME the eluent were determined by a particle enhanced turbidimetric immunoassay . Sensitive quantification of HER2 ECD by the PETIA was thereby accomplished . HER2 ECD concentrations in 82 clinical serum samples were determined by the developed IT SPME PETIA method and the results were well correlated with that by the clinical used chemiluminescence immunoassay . Besides the IT SPME PETIA method was found providing 5 times higher sensitivity than the CLIA and 500 times higher than the PETIA without IT SPME . The results indicate that the developed method is suitable for high sensitive quantification of HER2 ECD in clinical samples .

@highlight An immunoaffinity in tube SPME sorbent for selective enrichment of HER2 ECD was prepared.
@highlight A PLOT capillary 250m ID 1m layer thickness and 8nm mesoporosity was used for the SPME.
@highlight Sensitive quantification of serum HER2 ECD was accomplished.
