 Combining magnetic nanoparticles with noble metallic nanoparticles to construct multifunctional alloy nanostructures has become a powerful tool for imaging sensing medicine biology and cancer treatment and photothermal therapy . This work reports a study regarding the plasmonic properties of Co Ag and Co Au bimetallic alloys nanostructures on the electromagnetic spectrum . In this paper the optical properties of magnetic and plasmonic nanoparticles with different shapes sizes compositions and surrounding medium are investigated by using the discrete dipole approximation technique . The absorption and scattering localized surface plasmon resonance peak positions are found between 211964nm wavelengths ranges and can be tuned in the deep UV NIR region of the EM spectrum in accordance with the desired application . Further we calculate the refractive index sensitivity and figure of merit of LSPR based nanosensors . Although LSPR based sensors undergo low FOM as compared to conventional surface plasmon resonance sensors due to high losses from the radiative damping of localized surface plasmons waves . However LSPR based sensors have potential applications in gas and bio sensors technology viz . medical and environmental monitoring applications . In this work the main feature of LSPR peak is dependent on nanoparticle shapes sizes compositions and ambient medium and have ordered as prolate sphere cube rectangular shape NPs . These results suggest that the nanostructures of Co Ag and Co Au alloys associated with LSPR tunability and sensitivity can be used in biomedical and sensing environment technology such as detection of chemical and catalytic events .

@highlight The present research is to highlight the studies of bimetallic alloys nanoparticles of magneto plasmonic nanostructures.
@highlight The influence of size shapes compositions and surrounding medium for Co Ag and Co Au alloy nanoparticles results in significant change in optical properties.
@highlight The spectra are found between 211 and 964nm wavelengths ranges and can be tuned in the deep UV NIR region of the electromagnetic EM spectrum.
@highlight Tunability in sizes and shapes opens new potential use with desired applications in biomedical fields.
