 Phenomenological radiative transfer models commonly assume that particles in media reside in each others far zone and thus are defined by their single scattering properties . This so called far field assumption becomes questionable for dense particulate snow layers since the location of the snow grains inside is close and in each others near zone . Electromagnetic interactions among the particles can occur which potentially change their single scattering properties . In this paper the near field effects in radiative transfer simulations of the snow surface bidirectional reflectance factor and the albedo of a snow layer in the wavelength range of 300 2500nm are investigated using the phenomenological radiative transfer model SCIATRAN . The snow layer is composed of densely packed snow grains of droxtal shape with a maximum dimension of 60m . The snow grain shape assumption is justified by the good agreement of the simulated top of atmosphere BRF with satellite measurements over a pure snow surface in Greenland . To evaluate the error of the far field assumption the single scattering properties of the dense particulate snow layer has been modified according to the dense medium light scattering theory . By applying the far field approximation the BRF is overestimated by less than 0.039 at forward scattering angles and underestimated by less than 0.006 at backscattering angles respectively . The albedo of the dense particulate snow layer is overestimated by less than 0.012 . In the considered case the near field effects on the snow surface BRF and the albedo of radiative transfer simulations appear negligibly small . Consequently the simulation of snow surface BRF and albedo in the wavelength range of 300 2500nm by phenomenological radiative transfer models under the far field assumption is well justified .

@highlight The far field assumption is evaluated for a dense particulate snow layer.
@highlight The impact of near field effects on simulated snow BRF and albedo is estimated.
@highlight Droxtals satisfactorily describe the reflection properties of a natural snow layer.
@highlight The near field effects in snow are negligibly small.
@highlight The simulation of snow BRF and albedo under the far field assumption is justified.
