 We present measurements of the scattered light intensity by aerosolized hematite aggregate particles . The measurements were made at a wavelength of 532nm in the scattering angle range from 0.32 to 157 . Hematite has high values of the real and imaginary parts of the refractive index m n i 3 i0.5 at the studied wavelength . Scanning electron micrographs indicated that the particles were aggregates whereas the optical microscope pictures showed that the aerosol had a bimodal distribution with effective mean diameters of roughly 1 and 10m . This is consistent with the light scattering results which displayed two Guinier regimes . The aggregates were composed of smaller grains with an approximate size of 200nm . Ultra Small Angle X ray Scattering indicate that the aggregates were uniform and non fractal . Mie calculations for a sphere equivalent to the aggregate size were compared to the experimentally observed results . The observed results showed an enhanced backscattering whereas the Mie calculations did not due to the large imaginary part of the refractive index . Hematite aggregates were simulated by assuming they were composed of spherical monomers inside a spherical volume . Then the light scattering was calculated using the T matrix method for these simulated aggregates . The calculated results show an enhanced backscattering . We present a dimensional analysis to estimate the extent of multiple scattering within the aggregate and find a correlation between the average number of scattering events within the aggregate and the enhancement in the backscattering .

@highlight The scattered light was enhanced in the backscattering regime despite large imaginary refractive index.
@highlight Enhancement backscattering for the aggregate is due to internal multiple scattering between the grains within the aggregate.
@highlight Bimodal size distribution causes an extended Guinier regime.
@highlight Highly refractive particles displays two dimensional diffraction properties.
