 In this study the echo speckle characteristics of the Laguerre Gauss vortex beams scattered from random rough surface targets were examined based on the Rytov Approximation Theory . In addition the expressions of the intensity correlation and coherence functions along with the normalized intensity variances of the speckle fields were derived . The coherent lengths and scintillation indexes of the speckle fields were then numerically simulated and the speckle characteristics of the Laguerre Gauss vortex beam were compared with those of the Gaussian beams . The effects of the topological charges rough target radii initial beam radii turbulence intensities and roughness degrees of the targets on the speckle characteristics of the LG vortex beams were analyzed . This study s results showed that in the weak turbulence regions the target characteristics were the main influencing factors of the speckle fields . Meanwhile in the strong turbulence regions the turbulence effects were the main influencing factors of the speckle fields . The influence effects of turbulent atmosphere and target characteristics on the coherent lengths and scintillation effects of the vortex beam echoes were observed to be less than those of the Gaussian beams . In addition the influence effects of the turbulent atmosphere on coherent lengths and scintillation effects of the vortex beams echoes with small topology were found to be minimal . Therefore this study s results can potentially provide theoretical and technical guidance for the future applications of laser target detection target recognition and speckle measurement processes in space .

@highlight The speckle carries a large amount of target information the target features can be obtained by measuring the speckle.
@highlight There are few reports regarding the echo speckle characteristics of vortex beams currently.
@highlight The echo speckle characteristics of the Laguerre Gauss LG vortex beams scattered from random rough targets were examined.
