 In this study amylose and cellulose phenylcarbamate based chiral columns with different chiral selector chemistries were compared to each other for the separation of enantiomers of basic chiral analytes in acetonitrile and aqueous acetonitrile mobile phases in HPLC . For two chemistries the amylose based columns with coated and immobilized CSs were also compared . The comparison of CSs containing only electron donating or electron withdrawing substituents with those containing both electron donating and electron withdrawing substituents showed opposite results for the studied set of chiral analytes in the case of amylose and cellulose derivatives . Along with the chemistry of CS the focus was on the behavior of polysaccharide phenylcarbamates in acetonitrile versus aqueous acetonitrile as eluents . In agreement with earlier results it was found that in contrast to the commonly accepted view polysaccharide phenylcarbamates do not behave as typical reversed phase materials for basic analytes either . In the range of water content in the mobile phase of up to 2030 v v the behavior of these CSs is similar to hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography type adsorbents . This means that with increasing water content in the mobile phase up to 2030 v v the retention of analytes mostly decreases . The important finding of this study is that the separation efficiency improves for most analytes when switching from pure acetonitrile to aqueous acetonitrile . Therefore in spite of reduced retention the separation of enantiomers improves and thus the HILIC range of mobile phase composition offering shorter analysis time and better peak resolution is advantageous over pure polar organic solvent mode . Interesting examples of enantiomer elution order reversal were observed for some analytes based on the content of water in the mobile phase on Lux Cellulose 1 and Lux Amylose 2 columns .

@highlight Ranking of amylose and cellulose phenylcarbamate based chiral columns.
@highlight Unusual dependence of analyte retention and peak efficiency on the eluent composition.
@highlight Enantiomer elution order reversal based on water content in the mobile phase.
