 Conventional gas chromatography mass spectrometry takes 2040min per sample which is undesirably slow in any application if speed can be increased while still meeting analytical needs . In this study we achieved reasonably good separations with full analysis cycle times of less than 1min by combining for the first time low pressure GC MS with low thermal mass resistive heating for rapid temperature ramping and cooling of the capillary column . The analytical column is threaded into the LTM thin walled metal tubing in an instrumental device known as LTM Fast GC that is mounted at the top of the gas chromatograph in a detector port . The column inlet and outlet are connected to the GC injector and MS transfer line as usual . For LPGC MS a 40cm 0.1mm . i.d . uncoated flow restrictor capillary connected at the injector is coupled with a 2.6m 0.25mm i.d . 0.25m film thickness analytical column leading to the MS . Thus the inlet operates at normal GC pressures but the analytical column is under vacuum which increases the optimal helium carrier gas flow velocity thereby increasing speed of full range separations while maintaining acceptable quality of chromatography . This column configuration in LTM LPGC MS trades a 64 fold gain in speed of analysis vs. standard GC MS for a 4 fold loss in chromatographic peak capacity thereby converting analysis time from minutes into seconds in common applications . For example jet fuel containing fatty acid methyl esters was separated in 25s with 1min full analysis cycle time . An EPA Method 8270 mixture of 76 analytes was also analyzed in 1min full cycle time by LTM LPGC MS. Other examples include very fast analysis of heroin in a street drug powder and elucidation of a new organic synthetic compound . In this report we describe and discuss the several advantageous and practical features of LTM LPGC MS as well as its trade offs .

@highlight We report the novel and useful LTM LPGC MS technique for the first time.
@highlight A new working instrument for real world application was developed.
@highlight LTM LPGC MS concepts features and trade offs are described and evaluated.
@highlight Example applications with 1min analysis cycle times are demonstrated.
@highlight Comparison of LTM LPGC MS is made with conventional fast GC MS.
