 Complex chemical mixtures found in soils at contaminated sites typically includes polycyclic aromatic compounds thus posing potential environmental and human health risks . Pressurized liquid extraction followed by silica clean up is one of the most often used extraction methods for PACs in soil . While silica clean up provide satisfactory recovery of oxygenated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons this technique provides limited recovery of azaarenes . In this work we used PLE and in cell clean up with basic silica to increase the recovery of OPAHs and azaarenes . The optimized selective pressurized liquid extraction method used 4g basic silica dichloromethane 100 flush volume 100 and 120C extraction temperatures with two static cycles for each temperature no rinse in between the two extractions and 20 and 120s purge for the first and second extraction temperature respectively . The method was validated for a wide range of PAC groups including OPAHs azaarenes alkylated PAHs and sulfur heterocycles in total 87 PACs using certified reference material and in comparison to the results from previous inter laboratory data . Our SPLE method yielded results that are in agreement with certified values and inter laboratory data from prior analysis . The SPLE method also yielded lower variation than the results from the inter laboratory data for analysis of OPAH and azaarenes suggesting better precision than previous methods . More importantly the SPLE method increases sample analysis throughput as extra clean up step is not necessary anymore . The SPLE method was then successfully applied to rapidly screen PACs in three soil samples .

@highlight Selective pressurized liquid extraction method was developed to analyze PAC in soil.
@highlight Spike and recovery experiment and CRMs were used to validate the method.
@highlight The method was applied to analyze 87 PAC in three contaminated Swedish soils.
@highlight Several toxic PAC often not analyzed in routine screening were measured in soil.
@highlight The method can increase sample analysis throughput.
