 Biochemical and thermochemical processes are two pathways to convert lignocellulosic biomass into fuels and chemicals . Both conversion types produce aqueous complex samples containing many oxygenated chemical functions over a wide range of masses . Nowadays composition of these biomass products is still largely unknown especially their nonvolatile part mostly made of carbohydrates and their derivatives . In the present study size exclusion chromatography was investigated and applied on water soluble phase of a fast pyrolysis bio oil and on aqueous phase of pretreated wheat straw . An optimization of mobile phase composition using model molecules was necessary to limit non steric interactions and elute all chemical families . At the end separation of carbohydrates heterosides and aromatic species was performed . The chemical organization of SEC chromatograms was confirmed by coupling SEC with a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer using electrospray ionization in the negative mode . On line SEC UV FT ICR MS hyphenation was a powerful tool to provide exact mass distribution of samples and get molecular formulae classed by chemical family . To go further the complementarity of SEC with reversed phase liquid chromatography was established with an off line comprehensive 2D LC analysis of the two samples . First 140 fractions were collected physically from SEC separation for each sample then each fraction was analyzed by RPLC hyphenated to an Ion Trap Time of Flight mass spectrometer using ESI in both positive and negative modes . This comprehensive approach combining 2D LC and high resolution mass spectrometry nearly doubled the number of peaks detected in comparison with 1D RPLC analysis and thus offered well resolved 2D contour plots considered as relevant analytical fingerprints of the aqueous phase of biomass samples .

@highlight Aqueous phases of a fast pyrolysis bio oil from sawdust and pretreated wheat straw.
@highlight SEC on a low mass range 1000Da .
@highlight On line SEC UV HRMS and chemical organization of chromatograms.
@highlight Off line comprehensive SECRPLC UV HRMS.
@highlight Fingerprints of samples through 2D multi detection contour plots.
