 To fully capture the chemo diversity of medicinal plants is very essential for understanding of their pharmacological activities and guiding scientific quality control . Aiming to facilitate chemical characterization and novel natural products discovery the present study proposed an integrated approach based on two dimensional liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole Orbitrap mass spectrometer . An offline comprehensive two dimensional LC system was constructed to cover and separate multi type constituents by combining hydrophilic interaction chromatography and conventional reversed phase C18 . A two step mass defect filtering induced exclusion list data dependent acquisition was developed to increase MS MS coverage and selectivity . Additionally an efficient interpretation strategy combining an automatic matching algorithm and molecular networking was introduced for rapid recognition of known compounds and efficient elucidation of unreported ones . As a case study the integrated approach was tentatively applied for comprehensive characterization of complex multi type components in Lonicerae Japonicae Flos a traditional Chinese medicine . Consequently a total of 537 compounds were characterized from LJF including a large number of potential novel structures . It was demonstrated that the integrated approach is powerful in deep investigation on chemical diversity of medicinal plants and discovery of novel structures . Its application could also be extended for global profiling of other complicated chemical systems such as Chinese medicinal formulas .

@highlight A HILICRP LC was applied to cover and separate multi type constituents in LJF.
@highlight A two step MDF induced exclusion list DDA scan method was developed.
@highlight An automatic matching algorithm was proposed for targeted screening.
@highlight Molecular networking was applied for structural classification and elucidation.
@highlight Global characterization of multi type compositions in LJF was conducted.
