 Being performance enhancing hormones endogenous anabolic androgenic steroids are banned from most competitive sports by the World Anti doping Agency . In anti doping control laboratories routine assays are mainly performed on urine samples of athletes in and out of competitions . Serum constitutes a promising alternative to urine as it is less subjected to manipulation or contamination that may influence the method sensitivity . The simultaneous determination of EAAS including conjugated metabolites using LC MS is very challenging due to their contradicting chemical behaviors at the ionization interface of the mass spectrometer . This may prejudice their detection or limit the method sensitivity . Herein we have addressed these challenges and developed a new method for the simultaneous determination of unconjugated sulphate and glucuronide conjugated EAAS in human serum using ultra high performance liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry . The use of mass spectrometric detection in full scan mode facilitated the study of the most versatile adducts for detection and quantitation . A solid phase extraction method was developed for the sample preparation prior to analysis . The method limits of quantitation ranged from 0.006 to 7.904ng mL and the recoveries ranged from 70.2 to 96.5 . The method calibration was performed in untreated serum representing realistic matrix composition with correlation coeffecients ranged from 0.9859 to 0.9988 . Finally the serum levels of the investigated steroids were determined in 4 male and 1 female human subjects to provide estimates of baseline levels based on individual values .

@highlight A UHPLC HRMS method was developed for simultaneous EAAS analysis in human serum.
@highlight A solid phase extraction method was developed for EAAS extraction from serum.
@highlight The method was validated for application to doping routine analysis.
@highlight The method was applied to estimate baseline levels of EAAS in healthy subjects.
