 Processing of traditional Chinese medicine can enhance the efficacy and or reduce the toxicity . Currently available approaches regarding TCM processing generally focus on a few markers rendering a one sided strategy that fail to unveil the involved global chemical transformation . We herein present a strategy by integrating enhanced multicomponent characterization untargeted metabolomics and mass spectrometry imaging to visualize the chemical transformation and identify the markers associated with the wine steaming of Ligustri Lucidi Fructus as a case . An ultra high performance liquid chromatography quadrupole Orbitrap mass spectrometry based polarity switching precursor ions list including data dependent acquisition approach was developed which enabled the simultaneous targeted untargeted characterization of 158 components from LLF via one injection analysis . Holistic continuous and time dependent chemical variation trajectory among different processing time for LLF was depicted by principle component analysis . Pattern recognition chemometrics could unveil 20 markers among which the peak area ratios of eight components to oleuropein aglycone used as an internal standard were diagnostic to identify the processed from the raw LLF . Four markers showed an increasing trend while another four decreased in LLF after processing . MSI visualized the spatial distribution in the fruit and indicated consistent variation trends for four major markers deduced by the untargeted metabolomics approach . This integral strategy in contrast to the conventional approaches gives more convincing data supporting the processing mechanism investigations of TCM from a macroscopic perspective .

@highlight We report an integral strategy to study chemical variation of TCM by processing.
@highlight Totally 158 components were characterized from Ligustri Lucidi Fructus LLF .
@highlight Eight markers were discovered to differentiate between the raw and processed LLF.
@highlight Mass spectrometry imaging visualized the distribution of the discovered markers.
