 Metal nanoparticles have attracted intense attention due to their unique optical and thermal properties for applications such as micro nano electronics and photonics . Relative orientation interparticle spacing and particle size strongly impact the optical behavior of the nanoparticle assemblies . The near field confinement of electromagnetic fields between closely packed metal nanoparticles which is enhanced due to their plasmonic behavior creates high thermal energy densities under visible to near infrared wavelength laser irradiation . As metal nanoparticles tend to be oxidized or change shape under laser illumination resulting in non linear optical and thermal behavior surrounding each metal nanoparticle with a dielectric shell could be a potential way to mitigate these effects as well as to engineer their plasmonic behavior . In this study we use numerical simulations to analyze the plasmonic behavior of gold nanoparticles surrounded with dielectric shell by investigating nanoparticle s various configurations to each other as well as their relative orientation to incoming light source under laser irradiation in dielectric media . Such geometries are of particular interest for applications such as photonic integrated circuits photonic sintering and nanophotonic cooling .

@highlight The characteristics of optical electromagnetic energy propagation in au nanoparticle dimers and chains with various nanoparticle radii and configuration surrounded with dielectric material and suspended in different media under various wavelengths are determined.
@highlight Very large increases in field intensity up to 1500 fold can be obtained at 25nm radius au nanoparticle dimer having no dielectric shell with particles having 30 relative angle to the electric field in dielectric medium 
@highlight  1.33 under 532nm TM polarized light.
@highlight It is observed that using 2nm thick dielectric shell can enhance the plasmonic behavior of the au nanoparticles such dielectric shells may also be beneficial in controlling oxidation and agglomeration.
@highlight Dimer configuration is observed to yield about 25 larger maximum poynting vector ratio than 4 particle configuration chain when the nanoparticles are suspended into dielectric medium where
@highlight  2.
@highlight Au nanoparticles surrounded with dielectric shell and suspended in various media exhibit different plasmonic effects within investigated particle configurations and also exhibit different extinction cross section or efficiency such that extinction efficiency of 8.6 and 11.5 are observed for 4 nanoparticle configuration chain and nanoparticle dimer respectively at the maximum extinction cross section resonant conditions.
