 Absorption efficiency profiles and localized surface plasmon resonance wavelengths are reported for metallic core shell nanoparticles placed over a BK7 glass substrate . A numerical study is performed with the vectorized version of the discrete dipole approximation with surface interactions . Gold and silver metallic components are used for the simulations of two different core shell structures . Absorption enhancement and the hybrid modes of plasmon resonances of the core shell structures are compared by using a measure that defines a size configuration . It is observed that a small volume fraction of the core sizes results in shell domination over the plasmon response . An additional study is conducted to discern the sensitivity of the refractive index of nanoparticles in different surrounding environments . With a selected core shell size configuration of Ag Au pairs a significant absorption enhancement with a redshift of LSPR wavelength is observed for both Ag core Au shell and Au core Ag shell NPs . The absorption behavior of the bare metallic NPs and selected core shell pairs in proximity to an external probe s tip is also analyzed . The gallium phosphide and silicon tip usage are investigated with transverse electric and transverse magnetic wave polarizations . It is observed that the dominance of light polarization on the absorption enhancement of the NPs switches at different wavelengths where the dielectric transition for tip materials occurs . These findings show the possible targeted uses of metallic core shell nanoparticles in several areas such as nanomanufacturing localized heating bio sensing and material detection applications .

@highlight Plasmonic responses of core shell nanoparticles on a substrate are investigated.
@highlight Bimetallic pairs are considered for absorption enhancement and sensing.
@highlight Near field coupling between the nanoparticle and AFM tip investigated.
@highlight Dielectric transition of AFM tip materials is analyzed for the absorption mechanism.
@highlight DDA SI v is used for calculating the interactions with an evanescent wave.
