 Traditional Chinese medicine especially herbal medicine compound preparation faces great challenges in its quality control due to a myriad of components involved . How to perform quality control of TCM more effectively has been a research topic . In this study we used Tianmeng oral liquid as a case study and developed a comprehensive strategy based on non targeted targeted and bioactive analyses for quality evaluation of TOL from different batches . Firstly a non targeted fingerprinting analysis was performed by HPLC DAD and UHPLC MS MS. Twenty five batches of TOL were clearly discriminated by similarity analysis and hierarchical cluster analysis and components were tentatively identified . Secondly the targeted quantitative methods based on HPLC DAD and HPLC MS were applied to simultaneous quantitative determination of five and eight marker compounds especially toxic component strychnine respectively . The quantitative data were processed with principal component analysis for differentiating different batches of samples . Finally we explored the feasibility of establishing a total antioxidant capacity model . How to use the peak area instead of the corresponding concentration to determine the antioxidant activity related compounds was theoretically explained for the first time which was of great significance for the study of the fingerprint efficacy relationship . The orthogonal signal correction partial least squares model was employed to predict the TAC of TOL from their chromatographic fingerprints and identify three potential antioxidant markers . These results demonstrated that the comprehensive strategy from fingerprinting chemical composition multiple component quantification and antioxidant activity could be applied to quality evaluation of TOL and discrimination of the expired and unexpired samples .

@highlight Propose a strategy based on non targeted targeted and bioactive analyses.
@highlight Theoretical explanation provided for determining activity related components.
@highlight Total antioxidant capacity model was successfully developed.
@highlight The model was used to predict antioxidant capacity and identify antioxidant marker.
