 Extracellular vesicles exist in biological fluids such as blood urine and cerebrospinal fluid and these have shown promise for use as biomarkers of cancers . Conventional methods for determination of EVs include direct detection via enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and detection of their membrane proteins via western blotting . These techniques however have individual shortcomings in terms of the need for large sample consumption processes that are time consuming and a lack of the capacity for quantification . In this study we developed a method to determine the EV membrane protein CD63 by coupling capillary electrophoresis immunoassay with laser induced fluorescence . In this process the EVs were isolated from a culture medium and were subsequently reacted with a fluorescently labeled anti CD63 antibody to form a CD63 complex localized on the surface of EVs . After removing the EVs containing the CD63 immune complex by centrifugation the supernatant containing the free fluorescent antibody was injected into a capillary to serve as a sample . A decrease in the peak area of the free fluorescent antibody became apparent when the amount of EVs was increased while that of the fluorescent antibody remained constant . The peak areas were decreased proportionally against the increased amounts of EVs . The concentration of the CD63 could then be estimated based on the slope of the linear relationship . This study is the first to quantify CD63 immobilized on EVs via CEIA LIF which is a novel method with the potential to determine membrane proteins localized on the surface of EVs .

@highlight A sensitive capillary electrophoresis immunoassay for a membrane protein CD63 in extracellular vesicles was developed.
@highlight A novel concept for an indirect capillary electrophoresis immunoassay is proven by the determination of CD63.
@highlight CD63 immobilized on extracellular vesicles was quantified for the first time.
@highlight This method requires low consumption of both reagents and samples.
