 Oxylipins the oxidation products of polyunsaturated fatty acids are important signaling molecules in living organisms . Some of them have pro inflammatory properties while others act as pro resolving agents . Oxylipins also play a major role in platelet biology and the progression of thrombo inflammation . Depending on their structure they may be pro thrombotic or anti thrombotic . For an unbiased biological interpretation a detailed analysis of a broad spectrum of oxylipins including their stereoisomers is necessary . In our work we developed for the first time an enantioselective UHPLC ESI MS MS assay which allows quantifying individual oxylipin enantiomers . The assay made use of a sub 2m particle based amylose chiral stationary phase under MS compatible reversed phase conditions . It covered 19 enantiomeric pairs of oxylipins and one diasteromeric pair of a lipid mediator 2 pairs of hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids 6 pairs of hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids 5 pairs of hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acids 3 pairs of hydroxydocosahexaenoic acids and one pair of each resolvins D1 hydroxyeicosatrienoic acid hydroxyoctadecatrienoic acid and dihydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid . The new method is fast and showed outstanding peak resolution for most of the isomeric pairs . Excellent method sensitivity was obtained by using a triple quadrupole instrument as a detector in a targeted selected reaction monitoring mode . The applicability of the method was verified by preliminary validation . It was then applied to analyze oxylipins produced by autoxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids in air . Multiple oxylipins were found in each of the samples as racemic mixtures and served as reference substances for identification . Finally the new enantioselective UHPLC method was applied to analyze releasates from platelets in resting state and following activation with thrombin . The highest abundant oxylipin in the platelet releasate was 12

@highlight Enantioselective UHPLC MS MS method for chiral oxylipins developed.
@highlight Chiral separation of HODEs HETEs HEPEs HDoHEs HETrEs HOTrEs DiHETEs Resolvins D1.
@highlight Screening of different methods with sub 2m Chiralpak IA U and IC U columns.
@highlight Quantification of racemic mixtures from PUFA autoxidation.
@highlight Analysis of platelet releasates from resting and thrombin activated platelets.
