 Cloudy sky spectral radiance at the top of the atmosphere has always been an important while difficult variable to simulate for fast radiative transfer models . In this paper we focus on examining the impacts of cloud scattering properties on the spectral radiance signature of the High spectral Resolution Infrared Atmospheric Sounder onboard the Fengyun 3D satellite by using the Advanced Radiative transfer Modeling System and the Community Radiative Transfer Model . Cloud scattering properties used in the radiative transfer models are critical for modeling the spectral radiance under cloudy sky which involves choices of appropriate cloud particle models and particle size distributions etc . Multiple FY 3D HIRAS observations over Southern China and Southeast Asia with ice or liquid water cloud cover on 6 May 2018 are examined respectively . Vertical atmospheric profiles are derived from the Modern Era Retrospective analysis for Research and Applications Version 2 reanalysis product . Cloud property retrievals from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer are used . Cloud scattering property parameterization schemes based on spherical and nonspherical cloud particle shapes are implemented for liquid water and ice clouds in ARMS and CRTM respectively . Results show that both ARMS and CRTM can well simulate the radiance at the HIRAS spectral ranges under liquid water cloud condition as compared with the HIRAS observation with mean absolute error of brightness temperature of less than 1K . However for ice cloud conditions ARMS model using assumed spherical ice properties exhibits large biases between simulation and observation . CRTM with nonspherical ice properties using 16 stream approximation shows MAE less than 1K and MAE of about 1K using 2 stream approximation .

@highlight Impacts of cloud scattering properties on FY 3D HIRAS simulations are assessed in ARMS and CRTM.
@highlight ARMS and CRTM simulated brightness temperatures are compared with HIRAS observations to provide quantitative evaluation.
@highlight Spherical ice cloud approximation has been found to be not appropriate for ARMS model simulations.
