 Unlike standard dielectric materials the interaction of light sheets of arbitrary wavefronts with a particle exhibiting circular dichroism such as chiral topological insulator liquid crystal or metamaterials to name a few examples requires additional fundamental developments from the standpoint of scattering radiation force and torque theories.The purpose of this work is therefore directed toward developing an exact analytical formalism applicable to a 2D object exhibiting TM TE mode conversion and possessing an arbitrary geometrical cross section . Exact mathematical expressions for the longitudinal and transverse optical radiation force and axial torque components are derived stemming from series expansions for the incident and scattered electromagnetic fields using the mode matching method in cylindrical coordinates . The generalized radiation force and torque expressions depend on the beam shape coefficients of the incident light sheet and the scattering coefficients of the object . Extra new terms describing the generation of the scattered cross polarized waves induced due to TM TE mode conversion contribute to the radiation force and torque series . Numerical illustrative examples for a circular lossy electromagnetic conductor cylinder are provided assuming illumination by various wavefronts ranging from plane progressive standing and quasi standing waves to other non paraxial Airy light sheets with linear and circular polarization . In essence the present theoretical formalism provides a complete analysis in the framework of the generalized LorenzMie theory in 2D for any particle exhibiting circular dichroism in any structured light sheet . Potential applications are in the design optimization and the numerical predictions and computation of the optical radiation force and torque for particle transport and rotation in the realm of optical tweezers particle manipulation and stabilization . Some perspectives are discussed and replies to misleading comments made in the literature on the publication given by Ref .

@highlight Arbitrary shaped light sheets are considered on a particle exhibiting circular dichroism.
@highlight Generalized radiation force and torque expressions are derived accounting for TM TE mode conversion.
@highlight Computations illustrate the analysis with particular emphasis on polarization and light sheet properties.
@highlight The radiation force and torque components take negative positive or neutral values.
@highlight The results can be used as
@highlight information in research related to the study of the mechanical effects of light matter interactions.
