 This work presents the development and validation of novel thin film solid phase micro extraction based standard gas generating vials suitable for repeatable generation of gaseous standards for GCMS analysis and quality control . The vials were developed using carbon mesh membranes loaded with pure polydimethylsiloxane divinylbenzene hydrophilic lipophilic balance and carboxen sorbents that were then spiked with modified McReynolds standards including benzene 2 pentanone 1 nitropropane pyridine 1 pentanol octane dodecane and hexadecane . Sorbent strength was determined to follow the aforementioned order with pure PDMS presenting the weakest sorption capabilities and Car PDMS the strongest . While the weaker pure PDMS based gas generating vials transferred an instrument overloading amount of McReynolds probes to the 1.1mm DVB PDMS SPME arrows used for extraction vials prepared using Car PDMS TF SPME as a sorbent failed to provide consistently detectable amounts of analytes less volatile than 1 nitropropane . The DVB PDMS and HLB PDMS based vials were found to maintain optimal sorption capabilities for the tested analytes providing a sorption strength strong enough to not exhibit any depletion in 10 replicate runs while still delivering a consistent amount of all the regular McReynolds components . Moreover with intra vial RSDs of 5 or less for all analytes tested these HLB and DVB vials were found to deliver very good repeatability . After purposely submitting vials to 200 accelerated depletion extractions vials prepared with DVB PDMS were found to deplete by 33 38 34 33 40 and 33 while vials prepared with HLB PDMS were found to deplete by 21 16 12 31 16 and 0 for benzene 2 pentanone 1 nitropropane pyridine 1 pentanol and octane respectively . When user typical extractions conditions were used instead no depletion could be observed from the HLB PDMS based vial while RSDs ranged from 1.13.0 after the 300 extraction desorption cycles . Finally in efforts to demonstrate its real world applicability the DVB PDMS vial was used to evaluate the inter fiber repeatability of commercial DVB PDMS SPME arrows with results demonstrating that arrows from a single package were statistically similar .

@highlight A novel in vial standard gas generation system was prepared.
@highlight This TF SPME based gas vial was improved sorbent performance than previous designs.
@highlight A single vial was shown to give at least 200 extraction cycles.
@highlight The developed vial was demonstrated to be useful for the evaluation of SPME devices.
