 Lecithins are phospholipidic mixtures that can be part of microemulsions and liposomes . In this work ready to use preparations of lecithin have been tested as pseudostationary and mobile phases in EKC and LC respectively . The selectivity of two EKC systems one based on lecithin microemulsions and another on liposomes and of a LC system based on lecithin microemulsions has been evaluated through the solvation parameter model . In all cases solute volume and hydrogen bond basicity are the main descriptors that drive the partition process . While solute volume favors the retention of solutes hydrogen bond basicity has the contrary effect . In lecithin based EKC systems the hydrogen bond acidity of the solute leads to a higher retention while in the lecithin based LC system a minor retention is produced . The three lecithin systems have been compared through the solvation parameter model to other chromatographic systems most of them containing phospholipids . Principal component analysis reveals that lecithin systems cluster together with the other EKC systems based on phospholipids with an immobilized artificial membrane LC system with the octanol water reference partition system and with a SDS based microemulsion . Thus they all show similar selectivity . However the great advantage of using the ready to use lecithin systems is that the laborious liposome preparation is avoided and that their commercial availability makes them more affordable than IAM LC columns . Finally taking into account that lecithin has a high semblance to the mammalian cell membranes composition the ability of the three lecithin systems to mimic the pass of the solutes through the membranes has been evaluated . Experimental determinations have demonstrated that the skin partition of neutral solutes can be easily emulated especially using the lecithin microemulsion EKC method . The model is robust and shows good prediction ability .

@highlight Volume and H bond basicity of solutes drive partition in lecithin chromatography.
@highlight Solutes partition in LC and EKC systems containing phospholipids is similar.
@highlight Lecithin based chromatography emulates skin partition in a fast cheap and easy way.
