 The petroleum industry is increasingly concerned with the conversion of vacuum residues as a consequence of decreased conventional crude oil availability . The compositional analysis of heavy oil products has become a key step in conversion processes but the complexity of these oil matrices tends to increase with their boiling point . In this study comprehensive two dimensional liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled mass spectrometry is considered with a view to meet new requirements and to bring additional information regarding the species present in these matrices . In search for a high degree of orthogonality two separation techniques involving two different retention mechanisms were evaluated Size Exclusion Chromatography and Reverse Phase Liquid Chromatography . In SEC the analytes are separated according to their molecular weight while according to their hydrophobicity in RPLC . The separation power of both individual separation techniques was first evaluated . Off line and on line LCxLC were compared on the basis of an optimization approach . It is shown that off line SECxRPLC can provide for the same analysis time of 150min a higher peak capacity than on line RPLCxSEC while a similar dilution factor but also requires far fewer fractions to be analyzed . Asphaltenes which constitute the heaviest fraction of crude oils were analyzed by the developed off line SECxRPLC method . The resulting 2D contour plots show that co elutions could be removed leading for the first time to new information on high molecular weight species containing sulfur and vanadium .

@highlight SECxRPLC was successfully applied to complex petroleum samples.
@highlight Detection by ICP MS MS allowed to simultaneously analyze S Ni and V.
@highlight Information on both MW and hydrophobicity was obtained within a single run.
@highlight An effective peak capacity of 2600 was achieved in 150min in off line SECxRPLC.
@highlight On line RPLCxSEC was evaluated by a pareto optimality approach.
