 Different degrees of protein purity have been observed in immobilized metal affinity chromatography ranging from extremely high purity to moderate and low purity . It has been hypothesized that the host cell protein composition and the metal ligands are factors governing the purity of a protein obtained after immobilized metal affinity chromatography . Ni nitrilotriacetic acid has become the first choice for facile His tagged protein purification but alternative ligands such as iminodiacetic acid with other immobilized metal ions such as Zn Cu and Co are valuable options when the expected purity or binding capacity is not reached . Especially Cu and Zn are very attractive due to their reduced environmental and safety concerns compared to Ni . Co and Zn are more selective than Ni and Cu . This increased selectivity comes at the cost of weaker binding . In this work the influence of ligand choice on protein purity after IMAC was evaluated by several methods including peptide mapping . His tagged GFP was used as model protein . We found that host cell protein content varies drastically between ligands as IDA eluates generally showing higher HCP concentrations than NTA . The relative content of the key amino acids His Cys and Trp in the sequence of the co eluted protein does not suffice to explain co eluting propensity . The co elution of HCPs is mostly influenced by metal binding clusters on the protein surface and not by total content or surface concentration of metal interacting amino acids . Prediction of co elution is not dependent on these clusters alone due to protein protein interactions indicted by a relative low metal binding cluster score but high co elution propensity and in a lot of cases these proteins are often part of complex such as ribosome and chaperones . The different co eluting proteins were presented by a heatmap with a dendrogram . Ward s linkage method was used to calculate the distance between groups of co eluting proteins . Clustering of co eluting HCPs was observed according to ligand and by metal ions with Zn and Co forming one cluster and Ni and Cu another . The co elution of host cell proteins can be explained by clusters of metal interacting amino acids on the protein surface and by protein protein interactions . While Ni NTA still appears to be highly advantageous it might not be the cure all for all applications .

@highlight Coelution of proteins cannot be solely explained by metal binding affinity using metal binding amino acid clusters at the surface of the protein.
@highlight Protein protein interactions may dominate co elution of protein in metal chelate chromatography.
@highlight A new score to explain co elution propensity was developed.
@highlight A list of frequently co eluting proteins was established.
