 This work introduces the method of circular dichroism spectroscopy in the framework of the electromagnetic optical radiation force theory . This technique is defined here as the difference in radiation force of left handed and right handed circularly polarized electromagnetic waves illuminating an object exhibiting rotary polarization . The example of a lossless material such as the perfect electromagnetic conductor cylinder having a circular geometric cross section is considered . The modal expansion method in cylindrical coordinates is used to obtain exact mathematical series expansions for the longitudinal radiation force per length considering left handed and right handed circularly polarized cylindrically diverging waves emanating from a line source . The case of plane progressive waves is recovered when the source is located far from the cylinder . Numerical illustrative results for the dimensionless radiation force functions as well as the scattering extinction and absorption energy efficiencies and their co polarized and cross polarized components are performed with particular emphasis on the size parameter of the cylinder the dimensionless distance parameter from the line source and the admittance of the cylinder . The results reveal that the individual radiation force functions for left handed and right handed circularly polarized waves can be negative zero or positive depending on the cylinder distance from the source . Moreover the optical radiation force circular dichroism and the extinction energy efficiency circular dichroism are positive for a negative admittance of the cylinder while they reverse sign for a positive admittance . While the EEECD shows some form of symmetry versus admittance sign change the ORFCD does not . The possibility of achieving invisibility cloaking for a small PEMC cylinder is also predicted . The present ORFCD spectroscopy method is applicable to any cylinder material exhibiting rotary polarization such as chiral topological insulator plasma liquid crystal etc .

@highlight This work introduces the optical radiation force circular dichroism spectroscopy method.
@highlight This method is defined as the force difference of left handed and right handed circularly polarized waves.
@highlight The example of a perfect electromagnetic circular cylinder is considered.
@highlight A line source of cylindrically diverging waves with circular polarization is assumed.
@highlight Radiation force and energy efficiency results are computed and discussed.
