 The development of a new lower cost method for trace explosives recovery from complex samples is presented using miniaturised click together and leak free 3D printed solid phase extraction blocks . For the first time a large selection of ten commercially available 3D printing materials were comprehensively evaluated for practical flexible and multiplexed SPE using stereolithography PolyJet and fused deposition modelling technologies . Miniaturised single piece connectable and leak free block housings inspired by Lego were 3D printed in a methacrylate based resin which was found to be most stable under different aqueous organic solvent and pH conditions using a cost effective benchtop SLA printer . Using a tapered SPE bed format frit free packing of multiple different commercially available sorbent particles was also possible . Coupled SPE blocks were then shown to offer efficient analyte enrichment and a potentially new approach to improve the stability of recovered analytes in the field when stored on the sorbent rather than in wet swabs . Performance was measured using liquid chromatography high resolution mass spectrometry and was better or similar to commercially available coupled SPE cartridges with respect to recovery precision matrix effects linearity and range for a selection of 13 peroxides nitramines nitrate esters and nitroaromatics . Mean recoveries from dried blood oil residue and soil matrices were 79 24 71 16 and 76 24 respectively . Excellent detection limits between 60 fg for 3 5 dinitroaniline to 154 pg for nitroglycerin were also achieved across all matrices . To our knowledge this represents the first application of 3D printing to SPE of so many organic compounds in complex samples . Its introduction into this forensic method offered a low cost on demand solution for selective extraction of explosives enhanced flexibility for multiplexing design alteration and potential application at scene .

@highlight Low cost fritless and leak free 3D printed SPE blocks successfully developed.
@highlight A methacrylate based housing was compatible with most SPE solvents acids and bases.
@highlight Mean recoveries from blood oil and soil were 70 for several trace explosives.
@highlight New SPE blocks enabled detection limits of 60 fg 154 pg in matrix with LC HRMS.
@highlight Application to contaminated soil samples revealed occurrence of 11 explosives.
