 Our previous studies on protein adsorption to the anion exchangers of poly grafted Sepharose FF found that both adsorption capacity and uptake rate of bovine serum albumin increased greatly when the PEI grafting density reached over a critical ionic capacity due to the 3D protein binding and occurrence of chain delivery of bound proteins . Moreover by the investigation on the anion exchangers of diethylaminoethyl modified and DEAE dextran grafted Sepharose FF we found the unique role of surface ligand in facilitating protein uptake kinetics on dextran functionalized anion exchangers as the transfer station for the chain delivery of bound proteins . However what would be the contribution of surface ligands on the transport of bound proteins on PEI chains at a wide range across cIC particularly at the lower IC range where no chain delivery was present We have thus designed this research to answer the question . To this purpose we fabricated three series of PEI Sepharose FF resins one without surface ligand and two with surface DEAE modifications at DEAE coupling densities of 60 and 90mmol L and focused on the role of surface DEAE at different PEI densities in BSA adsorption equilibrium and uptake kinetics in a wide IC range of PEI across cIC . It was found that at low grafting ligand densities both adsorption capacity and uptake rate increased significantly after adding surface DEAE groups . At IC cIC however both adsorption capacity and uptake rate changed only slightly by the addition of surface DEAE groups . The results revealed that at IC cIC the surface DEAE groups provided the supplement of available binding sites and facilitated the happenings of the chain delivery of bound proteins as the transfer station both of which were limited at the low IC range . However at IC cIC the extended flexible PEI chains have already afforded 3D binding space with high accessibility and easy happening of chain delivery of bound proteins so the surface DEAE groups between neighboring PEI chains did not work in assisting the transport of bound proteins . Moreover when the IC was lower but close to the cIC the FF D PEI resins exhibited higher uptake rates than FF PEI resins at a similar or even lower IC values . These findings indicate that surface modification of charged groups in PEI based anion exchangers of low grafting density would be an efficient strategy to fabricate high performance protein ion exchangers .

@highlight DEAE groups are introduced to the gel surface of poly ethylenimine PEI Sepharose.
@highlight Uptake capacity and rate increase with adding DEAE at PEI charge density 600mmol L.
@highlight Capacity and rate change inappreciably with adding DEAE at charge density 600mmol L.
@highlight DEAE PEI resin exhibits higher uptake rate than PEI resin at similar ionic capacity.
