 A novel characterization system using a combinational analysis of the resonant mass measurement and asymmetrical flow field flow fractionation methods is developed as a hybrid analytical tool for the particle density of mixtures of different sized materials . The function of the RMM method is to determine the particle mass by observing the shift in frequency proportional to the particle mass . However to determine the density of particles using the RMM method information on the size or size distribution is necessary . Because the size distribution of the particles could influence the accuracy of the determination of the density of the particles this study addresses the weak point of the RMM method using the AF4 method . First AF4 is used to fractionate the narrow sized distributed particles as an effective sample preparation method before the RMM assessment . Moreover the accurate size distribution determined by the AF4 method with multi angle light scattering analysis supports the reliable density determination by the RMM method on the transformation from the mass distribution of the particles to the density distribution . Using our developed combinational analytical method of RMM and AF4 methods for mixed particle samples the densities of the respective particles are evaluated . This approach clearly resolved the problems of the RMM method using a combination analysis with the AF4 method for RMM assessment on the density of particles . The investigated analysis method can have an important role in developing new applications of colloidal nano and micro materials in industrial and biological research .

@highlight Combinational analysis method of the resonant mass measurement RMM and asymmetrical flow field flow fractionation AF4 was investigated.
@highlight The established AF4 RMM method is a hybrid analytical tool for the particle density.
@highlight AF4 was used as an effective sample preparation method before the RMM assessment.
@highlight AF4 provided a new analytical algorithm to calculate the density of particles by the RMM method.
