 Quality assessed analytical methods are required to determine organic priority substances in biota for the monitoring of the water status according to the EU Water Framework Directive . Although the literature describes several analytical methods to determine these substances in fish discussion about the efficiency of the clean up procedures to remove the lipids in the final organic extract is scarce . This work highlights the results of the development of an analytical method for organochlorines in fish tissue focused on the optimisation of the clean up step in order to obtain a final extract with the lowest amount of lipids . The efficiency of the purification of the final extract was assessed by quantifying the removal of co extractives gravimetrically by considering the sensitivity of the gas chromatography mass spectrometry method for the analytes and by assessing the analytes recovery . An analytical method based on accelerated solvent extraction followed by gel permeation chromatography and dual solid phase extraction and quantification via isotope dilution GCMS was applied to the analysis of seven PS isomers pentachlorobenzene hexachlorobenzene and hexachlorobutadiene . A preliminary validation of the method was carried out with satisfactory results for all analytes in terms of intermediate precision . Repeatability values were satisfactory for HCH PeCB and HCB while the obtained results for HCH and HBCD showed the need for further optimisation . Trueness was within the target performance for all analytes except and HCH . Limits of quantification between 0.5 and 3.3ng g wet weight were achieved depending on the analytes . The proposed method can be employed to determine the mentioned PS in fish tissue with up to approximately 6 lipid content . The presented results show the challenges in establishing an analytical method which aims at balancing the required accuracy with the routine applicability as needed in the context of environmental monitoring .

@highlight Organochlorine substances are determined in biota by ASE GPC dual SPE and GC IDMS.
@highlight Successful removal of the co extractives from the fish matrix was achieved.
@highlight Combination of multiple clean up steps is required to obtain a fat free extract.
@highlight Analytes recovery and GC MS sensitivity were optimised.
@highlight Validation of the method for and HCH PeCB HCB and HCBD was accomplished.
