 Current metabolomics research utilizes liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analyses to handle biological samples that contain thousands of quantifiable metabolites . However no LCMS MS condition is suitable for directly analyzing all metabolites . An alternative approach is to derivatize metabolites to impart desirable properties such as better chromatographic separation enhanced ionization efficiency or fluorescence detection . An important category of metabolites is amine containing compounds which includes amino acids neurotransmitters alkaloids biogenic amines etc . Various derivatization methods have been developed for amine groups but few studies have compared their relative strengths and weaknesses . We chose Dansyl Cl o phthalaldehyde Fmoc Cl Dabsyl Cl and Marfey s reagent to systematically compare their reactivity absorbance fluorescence chromatographic separation and ionization efficiencies under three pH conditions2.6 5.0 and 8.0 . Their MS MS fragmentation patterns were also examined under different collision energies . Overall Dansyl Cl is a very versatile derivatization method generating products with fluorescence and high ionization efficiency . Fmoc Cl is similarly useful under highly acidic chromatography conditions . Dabsyl Cl may be a good alternative at weakly acidic and weakly basic conditions . OPA is a versatile fluorogenic reagent and its chemistry may be fine tuned by incorporating different thiol molecules . Marfey s reagent is suboptimal in general but its chiral property is useful for the separation of enantiomers . All five were applied to the analyses of

@highlight Extensive cross comparisons conducted for Dansyl OPA Fmoc Dabsyl and Marfey s reagent.
@highlight Elution pH in LCMS analysis greatly affects the performance of derivatization strategies.
@highlight With
@highlight extract Dansyl labeling gives the greatest number identified compounds.
@highlight With
@highlight extract each reagent yields a rather distinct compound coverage profile.
@highlight No single reagent offers is clearly superior and case by case assessment is required.
