 The anionic phospholipid class of cardiolipins is increasingly attracting scientific attention in the recent years . CL can be found as a functional component of mitochondrial membranes in almost all living organisms . Changes in the CL composition are favored by oxidative stress . Based on this finding the investigation of CL and their oxidation products in relation to various disease patterns including neurodegenerative ones is moving into the focus of current research . The analysis of this diverse lipid class is still challenging and requires sensitive and selective methods . In this work we demonstrate an online two dimensional liquid chromatography approach by means of a heart cut setup . In the first dimension a fast hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography method was developed for the separation of CL and their oxidation products from other phospholipid classes but more important from nonpolar lipid classes such as triacylglycerol and cholesterol . Those classes can negatively affect the electrospray ionization and also the chromatography . For the heart cut approach the CL fraction was selectively transferred to a loop using a six port valve followed by the transfer to a reversed phase column in second dimension . On the RP column the transferred CL fraction including the oxidation products were separated according to the hydrophobicity of acyl chain moieties . Matrix effects were significantly reduced compared to the one dimensional LC MS method . In addition the total separation time had not to be prolonged by shifting the equilibration step of the RP column parallel to the separation in first dimension . The heart cut LC LC approach was applied to artificially oxidized lipid extracts of bovine heart and yeast by means of Fenton reaction . In summary 42 species have been identified by high resolution mass spectrometry and database matching . 31 species thereof have been further characterized by MS MS experiments .

@highlight Analysis of cardiolipins and their oxidation products by online two dimensional HILIC RP LC MS.
@highlight Efficient HILIC separation of phospholipid classes in first dimension and removal of nonpolar lipid classes.
@highlight Increased sensitivity due to less matrix effects for cardiolipins and oxidized species.
@highlight Separation of isomeric cardiolipin oxidation products in second dimension.
@highlight Cardiolipin characterization by accurate mass database matching using MZmine 2 and MS MS fragmentation.
