 The generalized multi particle Mie equation and electromagnetic momentum theory are applied to investigate the stability and dynamics of chiral nanoparticles in lateral optical binding induced by a high order Bessel beam . Such non diffracting light suppressed the influence of the axial intensity profile of the illuminating beams on the self organization process which then depended critically upon the inter particles interactions . The illuminating HOBB is described in terms of beam shape coefficients within the framework of generalized LorenzMie theories . Utilizing the addition theorem of the vector spherical wave functions the interactive scattering coefficients are derived through the continuous boundary conditions on which the interaction of the chiral nanoparticles is considered . The observed lateral binding force dependence of the separation of optically bound particles on the incidence of HOBB is in agreement with earlier theoretical prediction when the chiral spheres degenerate into isotropic spheres . We discuss the influence of the different parameters of the incident Bessel beam and of the chiral body on lateral BF in detail . Linearly and circularly polarized incident Bessel beams are considered and the corresponding lateral BFs are compared and analyzed . The polarizations of incident HOBB considerably influence the lateral BF of chiral nanoparticles . In binding chiral nanoparticles the polarization of incident beams should be chosen in accordance with the chirality . This finding may provide a recipe to understand the light interaction with multiple chiral particles of arbitrary shapes with the aid of the analytical approach . It could be a promising avenue in controlling the optical micromanipulation on chiral structures self arrangement .

@highlight The lateral binding force exerted on chiral bi sphere induced by a high order Bessel beam with arbitrary polarization states is studied analytically.
@highlight The accuracy of the theory and codes is verified.
@highlight Numerical effects of various parameters and different properties are numerically analyzed in detail. Even more so in hindsight of these parameters with respect to optical binding clearly shows that in what case optical binding exists as a fine balance between those parameters.
