 Micellar liquid chromatography is a reversed phase mode with mobile phases containing an organic solvent and a micellised surfactant . Most procedures developed in MLC are implemented in the isocratic mode since the general elution problem in chromatography is less troublesome . However gradient elution may be still useful in MLC to analyse mixtures of compounds within a wide range of polarities in shorter times . MLC using gradients is attractive to determine by direct injection moderate to low polar compounds in physiological samples . In these analyses the use of initial micellar conditions with a fixed amount of surfactant above the critical micellar concentration keeping the organic solvent content low will provide better protection of the column against the precipitation of the proteins in the physiological fluid . Once the proteins are swept away the elution strength can be increased using a positive gradient of organic solvent to reduce the analysis time . This may give rise to the transition from the micellar to the submicellar mode since micelles are destroyed at sufficiently high concentration of organic solvent . In this work several retention models covering extended solvent domains in MLC are developed and tested and applied to investigate the performance in isocratic linear and multi linear gradient separations . The study was applied to the screening of adrenoceptor antagonists in urine samples using mobile phases prepared with sodium dodecyl sulphate and 1 propanol . Predicted chromatograms were highly accurate in all situations although suffered of baseline problems and minor shifts for peaks eluting close to a steep gradient segment . Two columns were investigated with the C8 column being preferable owing to the smaller amount of adsorbed surfactant .

@highlight Screening of drugs in urine samples with direct injection is carried out.
@highlight Retention models are developed for micellar eluents with extended solvent domains.
@highlight Isocratic linear and multi linear separations are interpretively optimised.
@highlight Consequences of surfactant desorption in C8 and C18 columns by a gradient are shown.
@highlight Excellent agreement between predictions and experimental chromatograms is found.
