 Imaging lidar techniques featuring of low cost and short blind range have attracted considerable interests during recent years . However the bi static imaging lidar with the transmitter and the receiver placed far away from each other can mainly operate during nighttime . On the other hand the monostatic Scheimpflug lidar with the transmitter and the receiver integrated into a single setup suffers from a low quantum efficiency due to the large tilt angle of the used image sensor . In this paper a monostatic imaging lidar with the image sensor placed parallel to the lens plane of the receiving telescope which is referred to as Shallow Depth Of Field Imaging Lidar has been proposed for atmospheric remote sensing . The SDOFI Lidar system utilizes a 4 W 808 nm multimode laser diode and a 200 mm receiving telescope . The pixel distance relationship has been established according to geometrical optics . All day atmospheric measurements can be achieved with much higher signal to noise ratios during daytime comparing with the SLidar that employs the same optical configurations . The effect of the defocused backscattering image on the lidar signal has also been evaluated in detail . Inter comparison measurements have demonstrated that the lidar signals measured by the SDOFI Lidar generally agreed well with those measured by the SLidar . However the lidar signal and the corresponding aerosol extinction coefficient could be about 11 and 12 overestimated at around 100m respectively due to the defocusing phenomenon of the backscattering image during horizontal measurements . This work has shown a promising feasibility of employing the SDOFI Lidar for atmospheric remote sensing if the overestimation of the aerosol extinction in the near range is tolerable .

@highlight A monostatic imaging lidar with a parallel placed image sensor which is referred to as shallow depth of field imaging lidar SDOFI Lidar has been developed.
@highlight The pixel distance relationship is established according to geometrical optics.
@highlight The feasibility of the SDOFI Lidar for atmospheric remote sensing has been investigated through inter comparison measurements with the scheimpflug lidar.
@highlight The aerosol extinction coefficient obtained by the SDOFI Lidar is about 12 overestimated at around 100m due to the defocusing effect of the backscattering image.
