 Droplets are often attached to glass during the target optical detection process . This causes light to hit the droplets along the transmission path . The direction of transmission and amount of energy changes after the light passes through the droplets such that the energy that finally enters the detector varies affecting the target detection . The energy distribution model of the receiving surface affected by the droplets attached to the glass is established based on the basic principle of light radiation transmission . The Monte Carlo ray tracing method was used to calculate the effect of the droplets attached to the inner and outer sides of the glass on the transmission of light . The effect of the distance between the glass containing the droplets and the receiving surface and the effect of the contact angle of the droplets on the image seen are analyzed . The contact angle between the droplets and the glass affects the transmittance of light . When the contact angle is an obtuse angle the effect of the droplets on imaging is greater than that for an acute contact angle . The energy corresponding to the droplets on the receiving surface gradually converges to a particular distance and then gradually diverges as the distance between the receiving surface and the rear surface of the glass increases for the case in which the droplets adhere to the inner side of the glass . This study provides new ideas and methods for obtaining the influence of droplets attached to glass on the energy distribution of the receiving surface in target optical detection .

@highlight Energy distribution model of the receiving surface affected by glass with droplets attached is established.
@highlight The Monte Carlo ray tracing method is used to calculate the transmission of light through glass with droplets attached.
@highlight Contact angle between the droplets and glass affects the transmittance and energy distribution of the receiving surface.
@highlight Energy corresponding to the droplets on the receiving surface gradually converges to a distance and then gradually diverges.
