 A rapid separation and quantitation of the stereoisomer amino sugars glucosamine galactosamine and mannosamine along with muramic acid is needed . These compounds when their quantities are accurate can be used to understand the origin and fate of natural organic matter in the environment . These target molecules are biomarkers of fungi and bacteria and allow the deconvolution of microbial transformations and degradation of NOM in a wide variety of environmental matrices . Analytical methods applied to this suite of biomarkers are needed to understand carbon and nitrogen biogeochemistry with a changing global climate . Traditional separations of these analytes by gas chromatography require sample derivatization as does reverse phase liquid chromatography . In contrast ion chromatography can separate the analytes directly but requires a separate analytical method to quantify muramic acid . In this work we present a direct analysis of all these molecules using hydrophilic liquid interaction chromatography . Solvent composition buffer strength pH flow rate and column temperature were optimized . The method can separate these four compounds and the biopolymeric precursor molecule N acetylglucosamine in a single run in under 8min with equivalent resolution to the best previously reported separations that did not require derivatization prior to analysis . Detection of the analytes was performed by both tandem and time of flight mass spectrometry . The method was assessed for its quantitative capabilities through i peak area assignment ii check standards with ratios of the target analytes likely to be present in real samples iii an injection internal standard and iv quantitative analysis of real soil hydrolysates by external calibration and standard addition approaches . Across their expected analytical ranges the response for each analyte was highly linear with good accuracy and precision over three orders of magnitude . Detection limits of 20gL

@highlight Ten minute separation of amino sugars muramic acid and N acetyl glucosamine.
@highlight Separation optimized for mobile phase pH buffer strength and temperature.
@highlight Accuracy 25 and precision 15 at environmental levels and ratios.
@highlight Detection limits of 20gL
@highlight for galactosamine and 5gL
@highlight for other analytes.
@highlight Amino sugar soil hydrolysates quantified by external calibration and standard addition.
