 Dopamine is a catecholamine neurotransmitter that degrades rapidly in aqueous solutions hence its analysis following brain microdialysis is challenging . The aim of the current study was to develop and validate a new microdialysis coupled LC MS MS system with improved accuracy precision simplicity and turnaround time for dopamine serotonin methamphetamine amphetamine 4 hydroxymethamphetamine and 4 hydroxyamphetamine analysis in the brain . Dopamine degradation was studied with different stabilizing agents under different storage conditions . The modified microdialysis system was tested in vitro and was optimized for best probe recovery assessed by gain . LC MS MS assay was developed and validated for the targeted compounds . Stabilizing agents as well as internal and cold standards were added on line to the dialysate flow . Assay linearity range was 0.01100ng mL precision and accuracy passed criteria and LOQ and LLOQ were 0.2 and 1.0 pg respectively . The new microdialysis coupled LC MS MS system was used in Wistar rats striatum after 4mg kg subcutaneous methamphetamine . Methamphetamine rapidly distributed to rat striatum reaching an average 200ng mL maximum 82.5min post dose . Amphetamine followed by 4 hydroxymethamphetamine was the most abundant metabolite . Dopamine was released following methamphetamine injection while serotonin was not altered . In conclusion we proposed and tested an innovative and simplified solution to improve stability accuracy and turnover time to monitor unstable molecules such as dopamine by microdialysis .

@highlight A new microdialysis LCMS system was developed and optimized for dopamine stability.
@highlight Stabilizers standards were added on line to improve LCMS quantitative results.
@highlight Rat striatal dopamine was increased by 7 fold post methamphetamine 4mg kg sc dose.
@highlight Serotonin methamphetamine and its metabolites were concurrently quantified.
@highlight The new method was accurate and precise 15 with good probe recovery 37 .
