 This paper investigates conditions necessary to match the irradiance derived by integrating radiances measured by a narrow field of view scanning radiometer with the irradiance measured by a hemispherical radiometer both placed at a satellite altitude for Earth radiation budget estimates . When all sources are similar and they are spatially distributed randomly then integrating radiance for the irradiance does not introduce a bias . Although the exact magnitude of the bias in other conditions is unknown a finite area of the aperture that is much larger than the coherence area of radiation contributing to the Earth radiation budget and a finite time to take a single measurement that is longer than the coherence time are likely to make the difference of the irradiance integrated from radiances and the irradiance measured by a hemispherical instrument insignificant . This conclusion does not contradict the existence of spatial coherence of light from incoherent sources . Therefore electromagnetic energy absorbed by Earth is derivable from radiances measured by a scanning radiometer integrated over the Earth viewing hemisphere and then averaging across all locations on the satellite orbital sphere when combined with solar irradiance measurements . Comparisons made in earlier studies show that the difference is less than 1 . In addition when surface irradiances computed by a radiative transfer model constrained by top of atmosphere irradiances derived from radiance measurements are compared with downward shortwave irradiances taken by combinations of a pyreheliometer and a shaded pyranometer or pyranometers and with longwave irradiances taken by pyrgeometers the biases in monthly mean irradiances are less than the uncertainties in the surface observations .

@highlight Rigorous descriptions of a narrow field of view scanning radiometer measurements using the Poynting vector are provided.
@highlight Electromagnetic energy absorbed by Earth is derivable from radiances measured by a scanning radiometer.
@highlight The conclusion is consistent with the existence of spatial coherence of light originated from incoherent sources.
