 Thermal papers significantly contribute to contamination of paper material cycles and the environment with substances of toxicological concern . In particular they contain color developers like endocrine disrupting bisphenols in typical concentrations of about 12 percent per weight . Bisphenol A was used as the common color developer over the last decades but it will be restricted for thermal paper application in the European Union to a limit of 0.02wt from 2020 onwards . Consequently a variety of BPA substituents such as bisphenol S and its derivatives gain importance in thermal paper application . In this study a rapid reliable and cost effective method for identification and quantification of BPA alternative color developers and related substances like sensitizers is presented based on HPLC separation coupled with diode array detection and Corona charged aerosol detection . Quantification was performed with regard to the intended use of the substances in thermal papers . Besides traditional UV external calibration using reference standards alternative quantification approaches in particular UV chromophore concentration for BPS derivatives and CAD universal response technique for low volatile color developers were applied and compared in order to allow quantification without reference substances . A market analysis for intended used color developers and sensitizers was performed on thermal paper samples collected in Germany during 2018 and 2019 . Pergafast 201 was the most common color developer with concentrations above 0.02wt followed by BPA BPS and other BPS derivatives known as D8 D 90 BPS MAE and TGSA that are mainly present in adhesive labels . Sensitizers were determined in over 90 of the samples .

@highlight Fast separation of 18 analytes color developers sensitizers dyes in 10min.
@highlight Quantification without references via UV chromophore concentration and Corona CAD.
@highlight Analysis of 211 thermal paper samples from the German market 2018 2019.
@highlight Determination of color developers as functional components 0.02wt .
@highlight Color developers Pergafast 201 BPA BPS D8 BPS MAE D 90 TGSA.
