 After several decades development of retrieval techniques in aerosol remote sensing no fast and accurate analytical Radiative Transfer Model has been developed and applied to create global aerosol products for non polarimetric instruments such as Ocean and Land Colour Instrument Sentinel 3 and Meteosat Second Generation Spinning Enhanced Visible and Infrared Imager . Global aerosol retrieval algorithms are typically based on a Look UpTable technique requiring high performance computers . The current eXtensible Bremen Aerosol cloud and surfacE parameters Retrieval algorithm also utilizes the LUT method . In order to have a near real time retrieval and achieve a quick and accurate FIRST LOOK aerosol product without high demand of computing resource we have developed a Fast and Accurate Semi analytical Model of Atmosphere surface Reflectance for aerosol remote sensing . The FASMAR is developed based on a successive order of scattering technique . In FASMAR the first three orders of scattering are calculated exactly . The contribution of higher orders of scattering is estimated using an extrapolation technique and an additional correction function . The evaluation of FASMAR has been performed by comparing with radiative transfer model SCIATRAN for all typical observation illumination geometries surface aerosol conditions and wavelengths 412 550 670 870 1600 2100nm used for aerosol remote sensing . The selected observation illumination conditions are based on the observations from both geostationary satellite and polar orbit satellite . The percentage error of the top of atmosphere reflectance calculated by FASMAR is within 3 for typical polar orbit geostationary satellites observation illumination geometries . The accuracy decreases for solar and viewing zenith angles larger than 70

@highlight A fast radiative transfer model FASMAR for aerosol remote sensing was developed.
@highlight The accuracy of FASMAR is better than 3 for GEO and LEO satellite observations.
@highlight FASMAR is valid for all surface and atmospheric conditions.
@highlight FASMAR is used to create NRT FIRSTLOOK global aerosol products.
