 Per and polyfluoroalkyl substances are ubiquitous in the environment . However only a limited number of predominantly persistent perfluoroalkyl acids have been analyzed in edible plants so far . We present a generic trace analytical method that allows for quantification of 16 intermediate fluorotelomer alcohol or perfluoroalkane sulfonamidoethanol based transformation products as well as 18 PFAAs in plants . Additionally 36 suspected intermediate PFAS transformation products were qualitatively analyzed . The ultrasound assisted solid liquid extraction of wheat and maize grain maize leaves Jerusalem artichoke and ryegrass was followed by a clean up with dispersive solid phase extraction using graphitized carbon adsorbent and chemical analysis by reversed phase liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry . The method was based on matrix matched and extracted calibration and displayed good precision with relative standard deviations in triplicate analyses typically below 15 for all quantified analytes and matrices . An average deviation of 12 between quantified concentrations obtained by matrix matched and extracted calibration and a method based on isotopically labelled internal standards underlines the good trueness of the method . The method quantification limits for the majority of analytes in all plant samples were in the low ng kg concentration range on a dry weight basis . Plant matrices were analyzed from crops grown on agricultural fields that have been contaminated with PFASs . FTOH and or FASE based intermediate transformation products were detected in all samples with

@highlight A trace analytical method for PFAS transformation products in plants was developed.
@highlight A total of 70 PFASs were analyzed quantitatively 34 or qualitatively 36 .
@highlight Method validation displayed good accuracy of quantification.
@highlight Plant samples from contaminated fields contained intermediate transformation products.
@highlight Leafy parts of the plants showed the highest contamination.
