 Mixed mode cation exchange stationary phases are useful for the separation of mixtures containing hydrophobic acidic and basic molecules . To ensure that weak organic bases are protonated and carboxylic acids are neutral low pH mobile phases are required . Mixed mode stationary phases that are stable at pH 3 are needed . We synthesized a crosslinked structure along the surface of thiol functionalized silica gel particles using the thiol yne click reaction . The alkyne 1 7 octadiyne was added to the 3 mercaptopropyl silica gel then crosslinked using 1 6 hexanedithiol . Elemental analysis showed low octadiyne ligand surface coverage but stoichiometrically three sulfurs were added to each octadiyne ligand during the crosslinking step indicating that crosslinking occurred . The effect of the crosslinking on the stability was tested with a 50 50 pH 0.50 5 TFA aqueous acetonitrile mobile phase at 70C for six days over 35 000 column volumes . The stationary phase showed good stability with the retention of triphenylene decreasing only 20 during that time . The Tanaka test showed that the phase has a methylene selectivity of 1.200.04 a high shape selectivity of 2.710.03 and a 3.980.05 cation exchange factor at pH 2.70 . The phase has a selectivity factor for nitrobenzene and benzene of 1.410.01 indicating the electron donating charge transfer characteristic of the phase . The mixed mode characteristics of the phase were investigated using a mixture of the monoamine neurotransmitters norepinephrine dopamine and serotonin . Baseline resolution of the monoamines could be obtained using a simple 20mM potassium phosphate methanol mobile phase . Altering both the methanol content and the potassium ion concentration altered the retention of the monoamines indicating mixed mode cation exchange characteristic of the crosslinked stationary phase .

@highlight Crosslinked stationary phase stable at low pH made with the thiol yne reaction.
@highlight Electron donating charge transfer characteristics are due to the sulfur in the structure.
@highlight Mixed mode cation exchange phase is useful with typical reversed phase mobile phases.
