 It is challenging to achieve absolute quantitation and accurate identification with mass spectrometry imaging techniques . The issues facing these techniques include the uncertainty of sampling and ionization efficiencies in a localized environment the difficulty in defining the concentration of spiked standard on tissue and the low identification capability of MS in distinguishing isobaric compounds . In this study we coupled continuous flow liquid microjunction surface sampling with ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography MS for quantitative MSI of brain tissue . LC separation could increase the dimensions of identification and reduce the matrix effects in the tissue . A new LMJSS extraction solvent was developed to achieve exhaustive surface sampling therefore direct internal standard addition in the extraction solvent could be used for spot to spot absolute quantitation . The results showed that sphingolipids were successfully separated from their isobaric counterparts with LCMS and 10 sphingolipids were identified and imaged in brain tissue . The matrix effects in different locations of brain tissue with the new solvent were all in the range of 80 150 . Compared with the traditional LMJSS solvent the new solvent led to higher detection coverage and 6 10 fold higher sensitivity for 6 identified metabolites in brain tissue . Moreover extraction efficiencies of 8098 for targeted sphingolipids in brain tissue were obtained with the new solvent which allowed direct standard addition in extracts for absolute quantitation . Finally the absolute quantitation results with LMJSSLCMSI were compared with those using traditional bulk tissue extractionLCMS and similar quantitation results with these two methods were obtained for sphingolipids . The absolute quantitative spatial distributions of targeted metabolites largely matched previously reported results . The method was applied to a study on the quantitative spatial changes of sphingolipids and creatine in brain after traumatic brain injury . The biological replicate results showed that 2 metabolites had significant changes after TBI in several specific regions of brain tissue .

@highlight Continuous flow LMJSS was coupled with LCMS for quantitative MSI of brain.
@highlight Complete extraction of sphingolipids from brain was achieved by a new LMJ solvent.
@highlight Isobaric peaks were distinguished with LC for more accurate identification.
@highlight Quantitation results of LMJSS LC MSI were validated with traditional LCMS.
