 Since metabolism is implicated in the carcinogenesis of toxicants an efficient extraction method together with an analytical method is warranted to quantify tissue burdens of a carcinogen and or its metabolites . Therefore the aim of this study was to validate a pressurized liquid extraction method for measuring metabolites of benzopyrene P a food borne carcinogen from tissue samples . The sample extraction was performed separately by PLE and liquidliquid extraction . PLE followed by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to online fluorescence detector was used to quantify separated analytes and by ultra high performance liquid chromatography coupled to atmospheric pressure chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry were used for confirmation purposes . The UHPLC MS MS was set up in the atmospheric pressure chemical ionization positive interface with selective reaction monitoring . The analytical performance characteristics of the PLE technique was assessed at different temperatures pressure number of cycles and solvent types . A methanol chloroform water mixture yielded greater recoveries at an extraction temperature range of 6080C pressure of 10MPa and an extraction time of 10min . The PLE method was validated by the analysis of spiked tissue samples and measuring recoveries and limits of quantitation for the analytes of interest using HPLC FLD equipment . The optimized PLE HPLC FLD method was used to quantify the concentrations of BP metabolites in liver samples obtained from a colon cancer animal model . Overall PLE performed better in terms of extraction efficiency recovery of BP metabolites and shortened sample preparation time when compared with the classic LLE method .

@highlight Efficiency of extraction is important to measure body burden of carcinogens.
@highlight Liquidliquid extraction LLE do not extract PAH metabolites from tissues exhaustively.
@highlight Pressurized liquid extraction PLE is a more efficient extraction technique than LLE.
@highlight An PLE method was validated for quantitation of benzo a pyrene metabolites from tissues.
