 In this work the solubility of the racemate and the enantiomers of 1 1 binaphthyl 2 2 diyl hydrogenphosphate in methanol ethanol n propyl alcohol isopropanol n butyl alcohol isobutanol and ethyl acetate was firstly experimentally determined in the temperature range from K at atmospheric pressure . The results indicated that the solubility of BNP and BNP in seven solvents generally increased with the temperature in the temperature range investigated and at room temperature was in sequence of n butyl alcohol n propyl alcohol ethanol isobutanol isopropanol methanol ethyl acetate . Meanwhile the solubility of BNP was close twice that of BNP which revealed the crystalline BNP was a racemic conglomerate . In particular the effect of sodium deoxycholate reverse micelles on the solubility of BNP enantiomers in methanol ethanol n propyl alcohol and n butyl alcohol was experimentally studied as well . The results showed that the NaDC reverse micelles had a solubilization effect on both enantiomers which increased with the concentration of NaDC . However the solubilization on BNP was larger than that on BNP and the difference in the solubility between two enantiomers increased with the concentration of NaDC . To further clarify the effect mechanism of solvent and reverse micelles on the solubility of enantiomers and racemate the binding processes of solute to solvent cells and different sizes of micelles were firstly simulated by molecular dynamics and docking . The docking simulation clearly showed that bile salt micelles could form more stereoselective hydrogen bonds with the S enantiomer than those with the R enantiomer which leaded to the S enantiomer penetrating more deeply into the pockets of micelles with a more negative binding free energy resulting in a higher solubility of S enantiomer than R enantiomer in organic solvents with bile salt micelles .

@highlight Solubility of BNP racemate and enantiomers in organic solvents were firstly measured.
@highlight Effect of solvent type on solubility was creatively investigated by molecular docking.
@highlight Chiral discrimination mechanism of NaDC micelles was explored by molecular docking.
