 Animal feeds are often reported to be contaminated with chemical residues and when present above the maximum legal limit these compounds can cause harmful effects to consumers of animal produce . Thus animal feed safety is an important regulatory concern . The aim of this study was to optimise a multiresidue method for the simultaneous analysis of multi class pesticides and a number of frequently used veterinary drugs using LC MS MS and GCMS MS . The method was validated in a range of feed matrices including maize feed poultry feed and mixed feed concentrate . The optimised sample preparation workflow involved extraction of feeds with ethyl acetate followed by a freezing step used for eliminating the matrix co extractives . The extract was further cleaned by dispersive solid phase extraction with a combination of primary secondary amine C18 and florisil sorbents . From the cleaned extract an aliquot was analysed by GCMS MS while another portion of it was solvent exchanged to acetonitrile water and then analysed by LC MS MS . This method effectively minimised the matrix interferences . A total of 192 pesticides was analysed by GCMS MS within a runtime of 22min . The LC MS MS method was validated for 187 compounds including 17 veterinary drugs . For most of the compounds the limit of quantification was 0.01mg kg . The recoveries at LOQ and higher levels ranged between 70 and 120 with precision RSDs of 20 . The method provided a precise analysis in a wide range of market feed samples . As shown the method is suitable for regulatory and commercial testing purposes .

@highlight A multiresidue method for large scale analysis of pesticides veterinary drugs in feed is reported.
@highlight Selective residue analysis by GCMS MS 192 compounds LC MS MS 187 compounds .
@highlight High accuracy precision in analysis at 0.01mg kg and higher residue levels.
@highlight The method was validated in a wide variety of feed matrices with diverse compositions.
@highlight It provided precise analysis of incurred residues in feed matrices.
