 Accurate quantitation of low dose multi active dissolution samples poses unique challenges in the pharmaceutical industry often resulting in separate HPLC methods for each active or the use of multiple detectors for increased sensitivity . In this study we report a fast isocratic HPLC method utilizing only UV detection for dissolution testing of low dose desogestrel and ethinylestradiol tablets . Rapid separation is completed in 5min using isocratic elution at a flow rate of 0.45mL min with a column temperature at 30C an injection volume of 50 L and the detection wavelength at 200nm . After extensive method development and optimization the cyano stationary phase was used to overcome the large difference in hydrophobicity for desogestrel and ethinylestradiol providing balanced retention for both analytes under isocratic elution . Chromatography modeling software was used to provide a rapid analysis of multiple columns and chromatography conditions . The optimized method boasts fast and efficient separation through use of a short small I.D . column and a large injection volume of dissolution solution to achieve high sensitivity . The stable baseline from an isocratic separation allows low detection wavelengths to be used resulting in accurate and precise quantitation of both desogestrel and ethinylestradiol . The method has been successfully validated for specificity linearity accuracy and precision in the range of 75 600ng mL for desogestrel and 10 80ng mL for ethinylestradiol using both HPLC and UHPLC systems . The method robustness was characterized using a design of experiment approach and the operational design region of the method was established .

@highlight Cyano stationary phase for isocratic separation of desogestrel and ethinylestradiol.
@highlight Large injection volume on a small column without overloading.
@highlight UV detection for both analytes versus fluorescence and UV in compendial monograph.
@highlight DOE for method robustness and establishing operational design region.
