 A complete package of functions in the R language has been written for professional separation optimization of complex mixtures of ionized and or non ionized solutes . The package includes functions for base line correction of experimentally recorded chromatograms modeling of chromatographic peak shapes and retention data prediction of the retention time of the test analytes and or their chromatograms and separation optimization under either isocratic or single and or double gradient elution conditions by changing the organic modifier content and or eluent pH . The optimization functions presented in this study offer two different modes for selection of optimal separation conditions automatic and manual mode . In the automatic mode the optimal separation conditions are determined by maximizing the resolution within separation time preset by the analyst . In the manual mode the optimal separation conditions are selected via scatter or contour plots . The foreknowledge of the precise dependence of resolution and separation time upon one or two retention parameters of interest provided by the proposed computer assisted separation optimization method gives chromatographers a feel of confidence for the selection of the optimal conditions for a desired separation . An illustrative video given in the Supplementary material may encourage a novice practitioner in R programming language to follow the proposed separation optimization procedure in a real HPLC analysis .

@highlight Separation optimization in HPLC analysis is implemented in R programming language.
@highlight Two different modes automatic and manual are offered for selection of optimal separation conditions.
@highlight The R software is validated in separation optimization under isocratic monolinear and or bilinear conditions governed by variations of and or pH.
@highlight The proposed R software is expected to be a valuable tool for simulating and optimizing separation conditions for ionizable and neutral compounds.
