 We compare the optical properties of various geometric shapes with single atmospheric Asian dust and marine background air particles collected at Mauna Loa Observatory . Three dimensional representations of the particles were acquired with focused ion beam tomography which involves FIB milling of individual particles followed by imaging and elemental mapping with scanning electron microscopy . Particles were heterogeneous with mainly dolomite or calcite and a minor amount of iron marine air particles contained gypsum but no iron . Extinction and backscatter fraction were calculated with the discrete dipole approximation method . Geometric shapes were grouped as ellipsoids cuboids and pyramids . Each group represented a progression of shapes with 1 2 or 3 non identical axes . Most shapes underestimated particle extinction and overestimated the backscatter fraction . Not surprisingly extinction and the backscatter fraction of the sphere and cube were furthest from those of the particles . While the 3 axis ellipsoid and rectangular prism were closer dimensionally to the particles extinction and the backscatter fraction for the 2 axis spheroid and square prism respectively were often closer to the particles . The extinction and backscatter fraction for the tetrahedron and triangular pyramid were closer on average to the actual particles than were the other shapes . Tetrahedra have the advantage that parameterization of an aerosol model for remote sensing would not require an aspect ratio distribution . Particle surface roughness invariably decreased the backscatter fraction . While surface roughness typically contributes a minor part to overall scattering in some cases the larger surface area of the tetrahedron and triangular pyramid sufficiently accounted for enhanced forward scattering of particles from surface roughness .

@highlight Optical properties of single particles compared with ellipsoids cuboids and pyramids.
@highlight Most shapes underestimate particle extinction and overestimate backscatter fraction.
@highlight Extinction from 2 axis shapes is often closer to particle than from 3 axis shapes.
@highlight Tetrahedron and triangular pyramid perform best in estimating particle extinction.
@highlight Higher surface area of pyramids may account for scattering from surface roughness.
