 Simulation software for liquid chromatography can accelerate method development capabilities . In two dimensional chromatography this is particularly attractive because there are more method variables to consider provided simulations can account for the effects of injecting effluent from the first dimension separation into the second dimension column . In this paper we describe the adaptation of a previously described model to enable prediction of the profile of an injection pulse as it exits an Active Solvent Modulation valve and enters the second dimension column under a variety of flow rate and sample loop size conditions . Experimentally measured injection profiles were used to train empirical models capable of generating injection profiles as a function of sample loop volume and flow rate . The resulting parameters were then used to generate an injection profile for a loop volume not used in the training set . The resulting profile agreed well with the experimentally obtained profile for this sample loop . Finally chromatograms were simulated using previously developed simulation software incorporating the injection profile models developed in this work . Chromatographic peaks were simulated for valerophenone on an Agilent Zorbax Stablebond C18 stationary phase with an acetonitrile water mobile phase gradient . Results of simulations based on experimental injection profiles profiles predicted using the Forssn or global models and rectangular injection profiles were compared . Comparison of the resulting chromatographic peaks revealed good agreement between those produced using experimental profiles or the Forssn or global models with less than 0.3 deviations for retention times and less than 10 deviations for the peak widths .

@highlight Injection profiles for second dimension of 2D liquid chromatography are measured.
@highlight These injection profiles are successfully modeled.
@highlight Modeled profiles agree well with experimentally obtained profiles.
@highlight Modeled injected profiles are used with liquid chromatographic simulator.
