 The impact of radiative transfer scheme on global climate model simulation is presented in this paper by comparing the difference between two stream adding method and adding algorithm of the four stream discrete ordinates method radiation schemes in the Atmospheric General Circulation Model of the Beijing Climate Center . Only consider the effects of the calculation method itself the 4DDA reduces the negative shortwave cloud radiative effect in the areas with a significant fraction of low cloud while enhances the negative shortwave CRE in the areas with the large fraction of high cloud . For the longwave CRE the 4DDA enhances the longwave CRE drastically in the regions with a significant fraction of the high cloud . The feedback of clouds results in more interesting results . The 4DDA produces more accurate shortwave CRE in the region over the land and ocean in the middle and high latitude areas . The longwave CRE simulated by 4DDA is better than that affected by 2DDA over the ground in Africa South America and Atlantic . The change of radiation scheme affects the simulation of other meteorological variables . The simulation of global humidity by 4DDA is improved obviously . The 4DDA simulates more accurate temperature in continents of the northern hemisphere and precipitation in North America Africa northern Indian Ocean and western Pacific . Although the improvement of every physical process is required to develop the models implementing 4DDA scheme into GCM and evaluating the effect of it are necessary and meaningful .

@highlight The 4DDA reduces the negative shortwave CRE in the areas with the significant fraction of low cloud while enhances the negative shortwave CRE in the areas with the large fraction of high cloud. For the longwave CRE the 4DDA enhances the longwave CRE drastically in the regions with a significant fraction of high cloud.
@highlight The 4DDA enhances the negative shortwave CRE in the areas dominated with high cloud.
@highlight The 4DDA enhances the longwave CRE drastically in the regions with a significant fraction of high cloud.
