 Illegal dietary supplements adulterated with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors are increasingly widely distributed through internet markets and underground routes . For this reason it demands development of reliable screening methods to determine a wide range of PDE 5i drugs in various types of dietary supplements . Herein we developed a screening method using gas chromatography mass spectrometry for simultaneous detection of 53 PDE 5i drugs in supplements . Common formulations of supplements with complicated matrices were treated by simple liquidliquid extraction and trimethylsilyl derivatization . With the aid of TMS derivatization 53 PDE 5i drugs could be successfully separated and detected within 15min using a short microbore GC column . Moreover owing to enhanced detection sensitivity and selectivity of PDE 5i TMS derivatives 0.5mg of sample was sufficient to screen and confirm targeted PDE 5i drugs . In this study specific common ions according to structural characteristics of PDE 5i drugs were found under the electron ionization of their TMS derivatives . These specific common fragments could reflect the common pharmacophores for 4 classes of PDE 5i drugs . Based on characteristic EI fragment ions extracted common ion chromatograms and discriminant analysis were effectively used for reliable screening and classification of various types of PDE 5i drugs . Specific ECICs and DA using characteristic EI fragments here will aid in identification of newly emerging PDE 5i counterfeits in supplements . This study will be helpful to supervise illegal adulteration of PDE 5i drugs in dietary supplements to protect public health and consumer safety .

@highlight Development of a GCMS method to screen 53 PDE 5i drugs in dietary supplements.
@highlight Microscale sample preparation combined with simple LLE and trimethylsilylation.
@highlight First description of characteristic common EI fragment ions of PDE 5i TMS derivatives.
@highlight Construction of ECICs and discriminant analysis DA based on specific common ions.
@highlight Reliable screening and classification of PDE 5i in supplements using ECICs and DA.
