 Chlorophyll fluorescence simulation is a hot topic in vegetation remote sensing as it allows to link measurements at leaf and canopy scales to the leaf photosynthetic activity . This work tries to simulate light propagation scattering and fluorescence emission using 3 D vector radiative transfer theory that allows dealing with polarization . The model is called Fluorescence Leaf Canopy Vector Ratiative Transfer FluLCVRT . Realistic 3 D mock up of leaf is used to do simulation based on Monte Carlo ray tracing . Fluorescence is created when radiation passes through chloroplasts . The emission is proportional to the absorbed amount of radiation within the latter . Emitted fluorescence exits chloroplast in a random direction therefore ray tracing is done separately for original radiation and fluorescence . Bidirectional reflectance transmittance and fluorescence are estimated at leaf level within a discrete tessellation for input and output angles that are afterward saved as databases . Then at canopy level ray tracing is done leaf by leaf and at each iteration original radiation is traced in addition to an auxiliary one relative to fluorescence . Both phenomena are governed by their leaf bidirectional distributions and the precalculated databases are used . Results at leaf level point out the variation of the bidirectional distributions . Particularly reflectance and upward fluorescence are characterized by high specular effect and hot spot peak respectively . Horizontally polarized radiation emits fluorescence less than the vertical one because its surface highly reflects radiation in the specular direction . Fluorescence in red and near infrared increases and decreases with respect to chlorophyll content respectively . Fluorescence is emitted from shallow chloroplasts in upward case . Meanwhile in the downward one it is mainly originated from shallow and deep chloroplasts in the red and near infrared bands respectively . At canopy level the same chlorophyll polarization and bidirectional effects are observed except that hot spot peak becomes clear in reflectance . When LAI increases fluorescence saturates at LAI equal 2 and 3 in red and near infrared . Soil contribution in fluorescence is not too much since it does not diffuse an important amount of radiation in the chlorophyll absorption domain . A comparison between our model and Fluspect at leaf level shows differences in scattering and fluorescence . They are mainly due to the decrease of the chlorophyll efficiency in FluLCVRT due to the clumping of the chloroplasts within cell cytoplasm . Such an effect is not modeled in Fluspect .

@highlight Vector radiative transfer to model leaf canopy fluorescence is proposed.
@highlight Realistic 3 D mock up leaf simulation is adapted.
@highlight Fluorescence is created when radiation passes through chloroplasts.
@highlight At level databases of phase functions of scattering and fluorescence are created.
@highlight At canopy the leaf databases are used to propagate the radiation.
