 We present a novel approach to derive Aerosol Optical Thickness at 0.5 m and the surface reflectance for five spectral channels at native spatial resolution from the measurements of the Polarization and Directionality of Earths Reflectances 3 instrument aboard the Polarization Anisotropy of Reflectances for Atmospheric Sciences coupled with Observations from a Lidar satellite . POLDER had multi spectral and multi viewing capabilities . This publication describes the first step in the design of a high quality AOT and surface property retrieval algorithm enabling the global evaluation of future missions providing multi spectral and multi viewing space borne measurements . The developed retrieval approach is based on the radiative transfer and retrieval model SCIATRAN using an analytical linearized retrieval mode . The surface is parametrized according to the Ross Li model and the aerosol typing was using prescribed types based on the approach by Levy etal . . The minimization using SCIATRAN has been done by solving the quadratic programming problem which minimizes the considered system of equations based on linear constraints . In this study we constrained the retrieval so far only by assuming that the retrieved AOT at 0.5m is larger than 0.01 and smaller than 1.5 . Until now the retrieval is based only upon unpolarized POLDER data and shows promisingly weak dependence on apriori information .

@highlight A novel satellite based full physical retrieval to derive Aerosol Optical Thickness and Surface parameters over vegetation dominated scenes has been developed.
@highlight The approach is based on the SCIATRAN and relies on multi spectral and multi viewing capabilities of the used satellite instrument.
@highlight The minimization is done by solving the Quadratic Programming Problem QPP .
@highlight The retrieval has been applied to POLDER PARASOL data and provides very convincing results at native spatial resolution.
@highlight A first brief validation with ARM ground based measurements shows good and partly very good agreement R 0.84 .
