 The aim of the present investigation was application of hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography as an alternative chromatographic approach for the study of antisense oligonucleotides . The influence of several mobile phases differing with the salt type their concentration and pH value on the retention and the separation of antisense oligonucleotides has been examined for this purpose . Four different stationary phases were also applied including unmodified silica silica modified with the use of sulfobetaine groups polyhydroxy and aminopropyl groups . Such wide range of tested conditions has been useful in better understanding of the retention mechanism of tested compounds . The results obtained during this investigation indicated that greater retention greater peaks symmetry as well as more effective separation of oligonucleotides were obtained for the zwitterionic stationary phase . Moreover the optimization of tandem mass spectrometry parameters with the use of Central Composite Design was performed and different mobile phases were tested to choose that one which provided the greatest antisense oligonucleotides peak areas in Multiple Reaction Monitoring mode and consequently the greatest possible sensitivity . Hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography was compared with the ion pair chromatography commonly used in the analysis of oligonucleotides . Both techniques were compared in terms of selectivity of separation as well as the sensitivity of their determination . Obtained results proved that ion pair chromatography provided better results in terms of separation efficiency and peak areas in Multiple Reaction Monitoring for tested conditions . However these results do not preclude application of hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography as an alternative chromatographic approach for the oligonucleotides analysis especially when a mobile phase without ion pair reagents is required .

@highlight Salt type its concentration and pH values had an influence on the retention of ASOs for both silica and zwitterionic stationary phases in HILIC mode.
@highlight Zwitterionic stationary phase provided greater ASOs retention factors greater peaks symmetry as well as more effective MOE separation.
@highlight Salt type its concentration and pH had a great impact on the ASOs MRM peak areas in HILIC mode.
@highlight Comparison of IP RP HPLC and HILIC mode coupled with tandem mass spectrometry regarding the MS sensitivity has shown that greater ASO MRM peak areas were obtained for IP RP HPLC.
@highlight HILIC coupled with MS MS may be alternatively used for ASOs separation and determination.
