 In the present work we have investigated the combination of hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography and reversed phase liquid chromatography for the separation of peptides in on line HILIC x RPLC . This combination usually leads to significant solvent strength mismatch since a weak solvent in HILIC becomes a strong solvent in RPLC . This may result in band broadening peak distortion and breakthrough phenomena . Our focus was directed towards the reduction of band broadening and peak distortion . The conditions of the emergence of breakthrough could be investigated with high resolution mass spectrometry detection . The importance of both the injection volume and the difference in composition between injection and elution solvents was highlighted . Reported strategies to avoid bad peak shapes mostly rely either on flow splitting to limit the injection volume or on on line dilution . Here we propose an alternative approach which consists in injecting large volumes in the second dimension . In this case no flow splitting nor dilution prior to the second dimension is required . Our results show that above a certain critical injected volume depending on both the compound and the elution conditions narrow and symmetrical peaks can be obtained despite the persistence of breakthrough . As a result the injected volume in the second dimension must be larger than the largest critical volume . This counter intuitive approach was applied for the on line HILIC x RPLC UV HRMS analysis of a complex tryptic digest sample . A peak capacity close to 1500 could be achieved in 30min which is two fold higher than in RPLC x RPLC within the same analysis time .

@highlight Injection issues in on line HILIC x RPLC were overcome without flow splitting.
@highlight Alternative strategy relying on injection of large volumes in
@highlight D is presented.
@highlight Good peak shapes in RPLC above a critical injection volume despite breakthrough.
@highlight Applicability demonstrated for on line HILIC x RPLC analysis of peptide sample.
@highlight Effective peak capacity of 1500 in 30min 80 increase compared to RPLC x RPLC .
