 The basis of interpretive optimisation in liquid chromatography is the prediction of resolution from appropriate solute retention models . The reliability of the process depends critically on the quality of the experimental design . This work develops validates and applies a general methodology aimed to evaluate the quality of any training experimental design which will be applied in Part II to design optimisation . The methodology is based on the systematic evaluation of the uncertainties associated to the prediction of retention times in comprehensive scans of both isocratic and gradient experimental conditions . It is able to evaluate comprehensively experimental designs of arbitrary complexity . Five common training experimental designs were used to model the retention according to the Linear Solvent Strength and the Neue Kuss equations using a set of 14 sulphonamides of different polarity . The results are presented in terms of relative uncertainties in predictions which provide significant and interpretable results . The magnitude of such uncertainties together with the systematic coherent and logical changes observed at increasing solute hydrophobicity give support to the results . The NK model gave smaller errors and unbiased predictions whereas the LSS model gave rise to lack of fit . Isocratic training designs which are widely accepted as the most informative are confirmed as the best . As a general conclusion gradients are predicted with intrinsically smaller uncertainties independently of the training experimental design . In addition gradients are more insensitive than isocratic predictions with regard to the type of training design used . Isocratic predictions deteriorate quickly with mobile phase composition . This explains the better performance of gradient predictions even with biased models .

@highlight A methodology to evaluate experimental designs is developed validated and applied
@highlight Five designs are analysed with two retention models and solutes of varying polarity
@highlight Comprehensive meaningful interpretable and coherent results are obtained
@highlight Isocratic and multi level gradient training designs are confirmed as the best
@highlight Gradient predictions yield smaller and more insensitive uncertainties
