 Large RNAs including messenger RNAs are promising candidates for development of new drug products and vaccines . Development of high resolution methods for direct analysis of large RNAs especially for purity in general and size or length in particular is critical to support new drug development and manufacture . However resolution based on size or length for large RNAs is limited even by capillary electrophoresis which is one of the most efficient separation methods for nucleic acids in general . This paper presents a capillary gel electrophoresis method for separating large RNA molecules by size or length under strongly denaturing non aqueous conditions . We believe that our work constitutes the first time that a gel suitable for CGE prepared with high molecular weight polymers and using only formamide as solvent has been successfully employed to analyze large RNAs on the basis of their size or length with high resolution . With an eye toward application for mRNAs in particular separation conditions in this work were optimized for RNAs approximately 2000 nucleotides in length . As compared to a standard CGE method using an aqueous gel resolution for commercially available RNA ladder components at 1500 and 2000nt is increased approximately 6 fold . The impacts of polymer type molecular weight of the polymer and polymer concentration on the separation were studied and optimized . Analysis of the results presented here also provides guidance for optimization of separation conditions for RNAs with different sizes as needed for particular applications in the future .

@highlight A highly efficient CGE method using non aqueous gel under denatured conditions was developed for separation of large RNA molecules.
@highlight CGE conditions were optimized for analysis of mRNA with approximately 2000nt.
@highlight The mechanism of the separation was investigated using logarithmic plot.
@highlight The application of the CGE method was demonstrated using an mRNA drug substance.
