 Multi linear gradients are a convenient solution to get separation of complex samples by modulating carefully the gradient slope in order to accomplish the local selectivity needs for each particular solute cluster . These gradients can be designed by trial and error according to the chromatographer experience but this strategy becomes quickly inappropriate for complex separations . More evolved solutions imply the sequential construction of multi segmented gradients . However this strategy discards part of the search space in each step of the construction and again can not deal properly with very complex samples . When the complexity is too large the only valid alternative for finding the best gradient is the use of global search methods such as genetic algorithms . Recently a new global approach where the level of detail is increased along the search has been proposed namely Multi scale optimisation . In this strategy cubic splines are applied to build intermediate curves to define any arbitrary solvent variation function . Subdivision schemes are used to generate the cubic splines and control their level of detail . The search was subjected to a number of restrictions such as avoiding long elution and favouring a balanced peak distribution . The aim of this work is evaluating and comparing the results of GAs and MSO . Both approaches were tested with a set of 14 diuretics and probenecid eluted with acetonitrile water mixtures using a C18 column . Satisfactory baseline resolution was obtained with an analysis time of 1516min . We found that GAs optimisation offered results equivalent to those provided by MSO when the penalisation parameters were included in the cost function .

@highlight Multi scale optimisation MSO is compared with Genetics Algorithms GAs .
@highlight Long analysis times and excessive steeped slopes close to the peaks are penalized.
@highlight Good agreement between experimental and predictions and balanced peak distributions.
@highlight GAs with penalisation parameters found similar separations to MSO.
@highlight Competitive method for screening 14 diuretics probenecid and a degradation product.
