 Sandwich composite panels are widely used and significant in structural applications such as aerospace shipbuilding and transportation etc . This is due to their specific properties such as specific stiffness strength and energy absorption . Still many innovations are required to develop and upgrade their mechanical properties in various loadings and conditions specifically in bending loads . One of the methods to enhance the properties of sandwich structures is to employ various advanced materials in these structures to change their acquired properties . In the present research work sandwich composite panels made by fiber metal laminate like glass laminate aluminum reinforced epoxy as the facesheets and PVC polymer foam as the core material are investigated in flexural loading condition . To change or enhance the behaviour of sandwich panel in bending loads shape memory alloy wires are also embedded in between glass fiber reinforced epoxy composite layers in fiber metal laminate facesheets . The shape memory wires are also pre strained in fiber reinforced epoxy composite in sandwich panels . To study the flexural properties of sandwich panels with fiber metal laminate facesheets the effect of shape memory alloy wires and also the effect of pre straining of the wires three types of sandwich panels are considered and made including panels without shape memory alloy wire two wires with 0 tensile pre strain and two wires with 5 tensile pre strain for the same cross section . Due to the importance of bending properties in structural applications the sandwich composite specimens are subjected to flexural test according to ASTM standards . The maximum of 13 increase in maximum bending load and 84 increase in breaking load for the specimens with 0 pre strained wires are achieved . Also the maximum displacement and the energy absorption for the specimen with 5 pre strain was enhanced by 26.5 and 37 respectively . The energy absorption during the flexural test is greater in case of the specimen with pre strained wires . Moreover the specimens with pre strained wires show better integrity of the structure after the failure in bending . The results represent the advantage effect of shape memory alloy wires on sandwich composite panel s behaviour in bending .

@highlight Fabrication of polymer sandwich panels with FML facesheets are investigated in flexural load.
@highlight Using SMA wires to reinforce the FML facesheets.
@highlight The SMA wires are pre strained to enhance the reinforcement.
@highlight Failure process of all specimens are studied.
@highlight The specimens with the pre strained SMA wires show better integrity of the structure after the failure in bending.
