 In this study a highly toughened PLA was prepared through physical melt blending with EVA at the presence of hydrophilic nanosilica and SEBS g MA block copolymer compatibilizer . The effect of nanosilica and compatibilizer on the morphology mechanical properties and linear rheology of the PLA EVA blends was also investigated . According to TEM images nanosilica was selectively located in the PLA matrix while some were placed on the interface between the two polymers as was also predicted by thermodynamic and kinetic analysis . Upon the addition of nanoparticles the interfacial adhesion between the phases was enhanced and the average droplet size decreased . Interestingly incorporation of SEBS g MA induced morphological changes as the spherical EVA droplets turned into a cylindrical shape . DSC results indicated that blending with EVA copolymer resulted in the reduction of crystallization of PLA matrix however the crystallinity increased at the presence of nanoparticles up to 5wt . The addition of compatibilizer considerably hindered the crystallization of the PLA phase . PLA EVA blend containing optimum levels of nanosilica exhibited considerably enhanced tensile toughness elongation at break and impact strength . On the other hand the simultaneous addition of nanoparticles and SEBS g MA led to synergistic toughening effects and the compatibilized blend containing nanosilica exhibited excellent impact toughness . For instance the elongation at break of the compatibilized PLA EVA blend containing the optimal content of nanosilica was increased from 7 to 121 . The notched Izod impact strength was also increased from 5.1 to 65kJ m

@highlight Highly toughened poly lactic acid Prepared through Blending with Ethylene co vinyl acetate.
@highlight The simultaneous adding nanosilica and compatibilizer led to synergistic toughening.
@highlight Compatibilizer induced morphological changes as the EVA droplets turned into a cylindrical shape.
@highlight At the presence of an optimal amount of nanosilica the crystallinity of PLA increased.
@highlight The microstructure of the blends was assessed by rheological measurements.
