 This work aims at producing and characterizing unidirectional carbon epoxy composites containing different fractions of paraffin microcapsules for thermal management applications . The viscosity of the epoxy MC mixtures increases with the MC content thereby increasing the final matrix weight and volume fraction and reducing that of the fibers . This is at the basis of the decrease in mechanical properties of the laminates with high MC concentration but the application of theoretical models shows that this decrease is only due to the lower fiber volume fraction and not to a change in the properties of the constituents or the fiber matrix interaction . The MC phase is preferentially distributed in the interlaminar zone which leads to a thickening of this region and a decrease in matrix related properties such as the interlaminar shear strength which decreases of up to 70 . However a modest MC fraction causes an increase in the mode I interlaminar fracture toughness of 48 due to the introduction of new toughening mechanisms . On the other hand an excessive MC content lets the crack propagating through the matrix and not at the fiber matrix interface thereby reducing the toughening mechanism provided by fiber bridging . For the thermal properties the phase change enthalpy increases with the MC fraction up to 48.7J g and this is reflected in better thermal management performance as proven by thermal imaging tests . These results are promising for the development of multifunctional polymer composites with thermal energy storage and thermal management properties and future works will be focused on a deeper study of the micromechanical properties of PCM microcapsules and on the improvement of the capsule matrix adhesion .

@highlight Multifunctional carbon epoxy composites containing paraffin core shell microcapsules.
@highlight Mild production process preserves the integrity of microcapsules.
@highlight High phase change enthalpy up to 48.7J g.
@highlight Fracture toughness increases as new toughening mechanisms add up to fiber bridging.
@highlight Viscoelastic parameters are affected by paraffin melting and crystallization.
