 This research aims to develop superhydrophilic fiberglass epoxy nanocomposite laminates with high mechanical thermal and impact properties . In order to achieve this goal functionalized graphene was used as a nanofiller material to improve the mechanical impact and thermal behaviors of FGEC while the plasma treatment helped to form the oxidized polar functional groups on the fabricated FGEC laminates thus modifying their hydrophilic behavior . The experiments were started with production of FGEC laminates by mixing FGA with epoxy resin in presence of Acetone followed by preparation of FGEC laminates using vacuum assisted resin transfer and curing processes . Afterwards the surfaces of the fabricated FGEC laminates were treated by air plasma at 13Pa and 30W for different treatment times in the range 530min . Mechanical and impact properties of the untreated and treated laminates were investigated according to ASTM D7025 and ISO 6603 2 standards respectively . Also thermal behavior of the laminates was investigated using a thermogravimetric analysis while a high resolution camera was used to record and calculate a contact angle of the untreated and treated laminates . SEM and Optical Microscope was used to observe dispersion of FGA microstructure impact mechanism and surface morphology of the fabricated FGEC matrix . Meanwhile XPS was used to evaluate changes in the surface structures of the untreated and treated samples . The results showed that 0.35wt of FGA and 15 min exposure to plasma treatment were enough to improve tensile strength and impact energy of the laminates by 18 and 70 respectively and to decrease the water contact angle from 67 to 14 .

@highlight Graphene was used to improve the impact and thermal behaviors of FGEC.
@highlight The plasma treatment was used to modify the hydrophilic behaviour of FGEC.
@highlight The microstructure and surface morphology were investigated using SEM and XPS.
@highlight The strength and impact energy of FGEC increased by 18 and 70 .
@highlight Water contact angle of the treated FGEC was decreased from 67 to 14.
