 We reported a new approach for development of lignin bio oil based electrospun nanofibers that had high substitution ratio and good morphology . This approach was particularly unique and translatable as it used small molecule lignin bio oil with high reactivity and low heterogeneity obtained via lignin depolymerization reaction to produce well oriented LENFs . Firstly effects of various blends solutions ratios and electrospinning parameters on the characteristics of the obtained LENFs were analyzed . The results showed that the optimal parameters that resulted in the best electrospun nanofibers were as follows blend solution ratio the 20wt blend solution containing 80wt straw lignin bio oil and 20wt polyacrylonitrile flow rate 1mL h voltage 20kV rotational speed 500 r min and the distance between needle and collection screen 20cm . Secondly used the best LENFs we also applied to prepare lignin bio oil based carbon nanofibers and estimated its properties by scanning electron microscope X ray diffraction patterns Raman spectroscopy and tension testing . Our results demonstrated that compared with pure PAN carbon nanofibers the as prepared LCNFs had similar smooth surfaces similar crystallinity and similar mechanical properties . This work can promote the utilization of lignin depolymerization main products to produce lignin based materials while also help to reduce use of high cost PAN .

@highlight A large amount of catalytic depolymerization lignin bio oil product is successfully utilized.
@highlight Straw lignin bio oil based electrospun nanofibers have been successfully fabricated by different electrospinning parameters.
@highlight Electrospun nanofibers have similar good microscopic morphology to pure PAN electrospun nanofibers.
@highlight Straw lignin bio oil based electrospun nanofibers can be used to prepare high performance carbon nanofibers.
@highlight The as prepared lignin bio oil based carbon nanofibers have high smooth surface crystallinity and mechanical property.
