 The safe operation of electrical equipment relies on advanced polymer insulation to contain electrical pathways . Polymer sheath materials should be mechanically robust and chemically stable in order to protect the internal metal wiring from environmental attack . Polyethylene and ethylene vinyl acetate have often been used as electrical cable jacket materials for electrical power industry . Partially crosslinked PE is able to shrink and wrap tightly around the metal wires upon stimulated by external heat exhibiting shape memory behaviour . In this work multiwalled carbon nanotubes were introduced to partially crosslinked linear medium density polyethylene and EVA blend in order to enhance the shape memory performance at lower temperature by promoting the thermal transfer and antistatic properties of the polymer nanocomposite . The morphologies of the partially crosslinked and non crosslinked composites are analysed . The MWCNTs preferentially resided in the EVA phase while the peroxide crosslinking process drastically altered the morphology and electrical properties . The addition of 3wt of MWCNTs resulted in a percolation transition and enhanced the alternating current conductivity by 10 orders of magnitude for non crosslinked LMDPE EVA and by 3 orders of magnitude for crosslinked LMDPE EVA composites . LMDPE EVA containing 3wt MWCNTs possessed excellent shape recovery of 100 and shape fixing of 82 . The addition of MWCNTs can not only promote the shape memory efficiency of the polymer sheath material but also introduce antistatic properties to avoid electrical shocking or sparking .

@highlight A percolation threshold was achieved at 3 wt of MWCNT for non crosslinked composites.
@highlight Chemical crosslinking reduced the conductivity of the composites by changing the phase morphology and MWCNT distribution.
@highlight The reduced conductivity ensured good anti electrostatic properties.
@highlight Chemical crosslinked composites with 3 wt MWCNT exhibited shape recovery of 100 and shape fixity of 82 .
@highlight A good combination of mechanical electrical and shape memory is key for high power insulating polymer sheath materials.
