 Carbohydrates serve as structural materials energy storage compounds and energy carriers in organisms and provide insights into the dominant sources and the degradation state of organic matter . Several studies have analyzed dissolved and or particulate carbohydrates in the environment often with the aim of studying particular carbohydrate groups of interest . These studies have often employed different acids and hydrolytic conditions making comparisons across studies a challenge . Here we introduce a sequential acid hydrolysis protocol for the comprehensive extraction quantification and compositional investigation of carbohydrates in sediment samples . This protocol has four acid hydrolysis steps that sequentially increase in extraction strength where each subsequent hydrolysis step is performed on the unextracted remains previously hydrolyzed . The four hydrolysis steps consist of 1M HCl for 2h at room temperature 50C and 105C followed by incubation for 8h using 6M HCl and 105C . Based on tests using diverse carbohydrate standard compounds the protocol recovers most di and oligosaccharides and soluble polysaccharides during the initial hydrolysis steps whereas the recovery of most insoluble polysaccharides is highest during the final extraction step . Applying this protocol to different sediment types shows that recoveries of neutral sugars amino sugars and sugar alcohols are on average 60 higher than with a reference one step extraction method using only hydrolysis with hot 6M HCl . This sequential extraction protocol thus provides an important new tool for the quantitative and compositional analysis of carbohydrates in aquatic sediments .

@highlight A sequential hydrolysis protocol is developed to extract sedimentary carbohydrates.
@highlight The protocol greatly reduces lose of labile carbohydrates by strong acid treatment.
@highlight Carbohydrate recoveries are increased by on average 60 by this protocol.
@highlight This protocol is appropriate for different sediment types.
@highlight It provides more accurate information on carbohydrate inventories and compositions.
