 Polyethylene glycol is a polyether compound which is an excellent candidate to study possible specific interactions of protein polymer systems at the atomic level . Such studies would be beneficial in obtaining a more thorough understanding of PEG protein interactions and might help to explain PEG s effects on protein behavior when used as a crowder . PEGs has been called double edged sword showing assorted effects on the protein due its hydrophilic hydrophobic and amphiphatic nature . It has been observed that the stabilization of the protein due to PEGs is because of exclusion volume effect shown by the higher molecular sizes of the crowder however there are soft interactions also which leads to destabilization of proteins . Most of low molecular size PEGs are noticed to destabilize proteins due to soft interactions . Here the core characteristics of the polyethylene glycols that are responsible for the various interactions with proteins and trying to delineate the behaviour of PEGs being ambiguous are discussed . To conclude its paradox nature being a factual inert molecule or not many different reports of PEG interactions with various proteins are clubbed together . In addition owing to low toxicity high polarity high water solubility typically unhydrolysing or undeteriorating characteristics it has a practical significance in pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries and in the research field on which this review shall enlighten from earlier to now .

@highlight First review on PEGs and protein interaction which shows different faces of crowder on different proteins.
@highlight The review shows the paradox nature of PEG which can both stabilize and destabilize the proteins.
@highlight Being inert molecule as reports earlier it is proven to be interactive not a factual molecule.
@highlight PEGs as crowder molecules show that exclusion volume principle is not only mechanism for the stability of proteins but chemical interactions has also specific role in it.
@highlight PEGs have both medical and academic research value
@highlight study of proteins in presence of PEGs interaction study protein folding etc. let us know its effects
@highlight as remedy.
