 Studies on graphite flakes with a lateral size greater than 50m having a large number of stacked collapse blocks are neglected and replaced by graphene nanosheets or by powdered graphite which can be obtained from graphite through chemical or physical exfoliation as filler in polymer composites . Besides the production of graphene nanosheets or the purification of powdered graphite uses a high concentration of strong and toxic acids that pollutes the environment . These processes are extremely time consuming and generate an expensive product . Composites of poly were prepared via extrusion with graphite flakes with up to 60m thick and 700m lateral size in the range from 0.1 to 5 m m. The quality of graphite flakes was analyzed by thermogravimetric analysis x ray diffraction Raman spectroscopy Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy . The increase in the graphite content in the PVDF matrix improved thermal resistance while showed an increase in the degree of crystallinity up to 25 by XRD and 43 by differential scanning calorimetry approximately . Although the graphite acted as a nucleating agent the content of the PVDF beta phase did not change . In the composites with up to 2.0 of graphite a significant increase in mechanical properties 13 modulus and 36 in the storage modulus evaluated by thermodynamic mechanical analysis and tensile tests . In the analyses of time domain nuclear magnetic resonance and oscillatory rheology in parallel plates it was noticed that the increase of mechanical properties is due to the reinforcing effect along with the lubricant protection of stacked graphene sheets attenuating the stress and friction between the polymer chains . Therefore even though graphite flakes are inexpensive that filler without any treatment at low contents are capable of significantly improving the performance of PVDF . This work suggests that these composites could be employed in applications such as electrical insulator with less energy dissipation and also in oil pipelines specifically to replace PVDF based terpolymers or mixtures thereof and polyamide 11 in flexible risers as a barrier layer improving their performance .

@highlight Composites of PVDF with graphite flakes prepared via extrusion.
@highlight The increase in graphite content in PVDF improved thermal resistance and degree of crystallinity.
@highlight Composites with up to 2.0 of graphite have significant increase in mechanical properties.
@highlight Reinforcing effect and lubricant protection of stacked graphene sheets.
@highlight Electrical conductivity and capacitance increased in these insulating materials.
