 Self reinforced single polymer composites which are fabricated by combining the same type of polymer with different properties into one body have high specific strength no interfacial heterogeneity and ease of recycling . To better understand the relationship between the micro morphology and mechanical properties of SRCs the co injection molding process was used in this study to process SRCs parts with different molding parameters and obtain the co injection self reinforced single polymer composites parts . Further the micro morphology of CI SRCs parts were observed by polarizing microscope scanning electron microscope differential scanning calorimetry and wide Angle X ray diffraction . From the results it was found that the tensile properties of CI SRCs parts with different molding parameters were improved by up to 23.94 compared with the conventional parts . Through PLM observation it is found that the section shape of CI SRCs parts perpendicular to the flow direction shows a double skin core structure and the area ratio of skin layer was higher than that of conventional parts with a maximum increase of 68 . The low temperature and low speed environment were conducive to the formation of skin layer and the tensile property of CI SRCs parts were positively correlated with the area ratio of skin layer . SEM was carried out on the skin layer near the fusion position of the interface and the highly oriented shish kebab structure was observed . The 1D WAXD pattern analysis shows that the crystallinity of CI SRCs parts were lower than that of conventional parts with a maximum reduction of 19.32 . The crystallinity of CI SRCs parts were positively correlated with melt temperature gradient and its tensile properties were negatively correlated with the change of crystallinity . The 2D WAXD pattern analysis shows that the molecular orientation of CI SRCs parts were higher than conventional parts with the maximum increase of 37.44 . Low temperature and low speed can improve the molecular orientation of CI SRCs parts and the change of molecular orientations were positively correlated with the tensile properties of CI SRCs parts . By means of response surface method the molecular orientation obtained was the decisive factor affecting the performance of CI SRCs parts . Furthermore by means of the least squares minimization program the dimensionless equations among molding parameters micro morphologies and mechanical properties were established . The prediction of mechanical properties of CI SRCs parts based on micro morphologies were realized providing theoretical support for the adjustability of CI SRCs parts properties .

@highlight CI SRCs parts with self reinforcing properties were obtained by co injection molding.
@highlight The effects of nolding parameters on the morphology and properties of CI SRCs were studied.
@highlight The shish kebab structure can be observed in the skin of the interface of CI SRCs parts.
@highlight Making the molecular chain oriented and capable of rapid preservation are key factors to improve mechanical properties of parts.
@highlight A dimensionless equation is established for the correlation among molding parameters microstructures and mechanical properties.
