 In the present research the untanned proteinaceous trimming waste from tanneries was used to prepare highly flexible and transparent bioplastic films . Composite bioplastic films were fabricated by blending trimming hydrolysate powder and polyvinyl alcohol using the solution casting method . In addition a non toxic and relatively inexpensive bio crosslinker citric acid was used as a plasticizer crosslinking agent . The effects of citric acid concentration on the mechanical properties thermal stability transparency and anti microbial properties of the bioplastic films were investigated . Crosslinking interactions by the citric acid on the constituents of the bioplastic were confirmed using FTIR ATR . Also the surface microstructure of the films was studied using SEM . The resultant bioplastic films were smooth uniform and defect free . Citric acid used in the bioplastic blend formulation clearly acted as a plasticizer at higher concentrations . The trimming waste based bioplastic with the citric acid concentration of 40 exhibited an outstanding tensile strength above 20MPa and extremely high elongation at break value greater than 343 . The bioplastic degraded to an extent of 62 within 70 days under the soil burial test . The transparency of the bioplastics was comparable with the LDPE and PP like conventional plastics . The anti microbial properties of the films are the positive aspects brought about by the presence of citric acid interactions . Consequently trimming based bioplastics may become a future friendly alternative to fossil derived plastics having applicability in packaging wound healing and other biocompatible applications .

@highlight Untanned tannery solid waste trimming waste was utilized for preparing transparent bioplastic material.
@highlight Trimming hydrolysate based bioplastic was mechanically robust and highly extensible.
@highlight Citric acid acted as compatibilizer and as a flexible crosslinking agent providing multiple beneficial properties.
@highlight The bioplastic films were found to be antimicrobial in nature.
@highlight Trimming based bioplastic can become a prospective alternative to the fossil based plastic materials.
