 In this study Polystyrene based materials PS with tailored morphologies are prepared by solution blow spinning SBS . It is demonstrated that this tailored morphology of PS can be designed through the choice of particular SBS processing conditions . Several SBS processing conditions including solution concentration gas pressure and solution feeding rate are changed to consider their individual and combined effects on the final polymer morphology . The morphology of the PS samples is inspected by scanning electron microscopy SEM . This morphology is analyzed in terms of fiber diameter and relative amount of fibers respect to other morphological features such as lumps or fibers aggregates . Coupling the experimental analysis with the use of Box Behnken method and the desirability function particular values of parameters controlling the SBS processing conditions are able to be obtained in order to achieve certain morphologies of PS in particular maximum amount of fibers with the minimum diameter . Influence of PS morphology on hydrophobicity and the ability of oil absorption is studied by contact angle measurements . The use of Box Behnken design together with the desirability function is revealed as a reliable and accurate method for designing polystyrene materials through the optimal election of SBS processing conditions for the production of the polymer with particular morphologies and therefore with especial performance regarding adsorption and absorption of liquid wastes . SBS PS constituted by the maximum amount of fibers with the shortest diameters lead to superhydrophobic materials with the highest ability of oil absorption for the PS .

@highlight PS constituted by non woven fibers was produced by solution blow spinning SBS.
@highlight Morphologies of PS were predicted by choosing SBS conditions through the use of Box Behnken design.
@highlight Superhydrophobic materials with water contact higher than 160 were made by SBS.
@highlight Correlation between morphologies of PS and wettability behavior was studied.
@highlight Oil up take by PS could be tuned by controlling its morphology.
