 Dissolved organic carbon in hot springs reflects a range of sources and biogeochemical processes . We evaluated 200 continental hot spring samples with a range in pH and temperature collected from the Tengchong hydrothermal region Yunnan Province China and Yellowstone National Park Wyoming USA . Dissolved organic carbon concentrations ranged from 16.7M to 2.97mM . Acidic springs displayed the highest values and widest range in carbon concentration . Alkaline springs had a narrower range and lower average concentrations . Carbon composition was evaluated using ultraviolet absorption and 3D fluorescence spectroscopy . Total fluorescence was correlated with dissolved organic carbon concentration . Fluorescence excitation emission matrices were deconvolved using parallel factor analysis . We validated a five component model that represented 97 of the total fluorescence . Our model includes three humic like components one protein like component and one novel component exclusively observed in highly acidic springs . The closest spectral match to the novel component is an acid soluble lignin produced during high temperature acid digestion of wood pulp . Humic like components were dominant in mid pH springs indicating these springs had greater terrestrial carbon input . Acidic springs also exhibited evidence for terrestrial carbon input . Alkaline springs in contrast consistently had low dissolved organic carbon content and low fluorescence intensity suggesting that these springs had little terrestrial input . This absence of terrestrial carbon implies a predominantly hydrothermal fluid source . A comparison of the traditional fluorescence indices with our five model components suggest that these indices may have limited utility in continental hot springs with multiple organic matter sources and alteration processes .

@highlight DOC concentration and fluorescent DOM composition vary with pH of hot springs.
@highlight Hot spring DOM composition is significantly different from surface water DOM.
@highlight PARAFAC modeling shows a fluorescent component unique to highly acidic hot springs.
