 The high cost involved to substitute a condemned flexible pipe whose pressure sheath has reached its theoretical preconized service life has motivated this study . Therefore the main objective is to propose a constitutive equation for in service aged polyamide 11 describing the creep behavior as a function of temperature stress level and Corrected Inherent Viscosity this latter parameter representing the level of material degradation due to hydrolysis . The constitutive equation may be employed for gap spanning analysis and also to subsidize the decision to extend the operational life of flexible pipes that have experienced more severe conditions or have been used for a longer time than designed . The current models to assess the remaining life of the sheath are based only on a single property decay based on corrected intrinsic viscosity curves obtained from laboratory tests . To compare the result from the life prediction model in use and the material mechanical behavior an experimental campaign was performed using polyamide 11 samples retrieved from a 6 gas production flexible flowline which theoretically had reached a full damaged condition after nearly 3 years operating at higher than specified temperature . Dog bone geometry specimens were machined from the internal intermediate and external layers of the flexible flowline pressure sheath . Once polymers are excellent thermal insulators it was assumed that the material operated under different temperatures within the thickness and therefore presents different degradation degrees . CIV tensile and creep analyses were performed confirming that the behavior is different for each region within the thickness of the pressure sheath . Differential scanning calorimetry thermogravimetry analyses and dynamic thermomechanical analysis were performed to comparatively characterize the degree of crystallinity amount of extractables and morphology of each section . A creep behavior model considering the gradient difference in the material is proposed . It is concluded that aging is different across the liner thickness and the PA11 creep behavior may be expressed as a function of the CIV temperature and stress .

@highlight A creep model considering Polyamide 11 degradation is presented.
@highlight Constitutive creep model and experimental results are compared.
@highlight Specimens are machined from in service flexible flowlines and tensile and creep tests are performed.
@highlight Differential scanning calorimetry and thermogravimetry analyses are performed.
@highlight Yield stress and strain are obtained as a function of CIV and temperature.
