 The paper presents experimental research and numerical modeling of dynamic properties of magnetorheological elastomers . Isotropic and anisotropic MREs have been prepared based on silicone matrix filled by micro sized carbonyl iron particles . Dynamic properties of the isotropic and anisotropic MREs were determined using double lap shear test under harmonic loading in the displacement control mode . Effects of excitation frequency strain amplitude and magnetic field intensity on the dynamic properties of the MREs were examined . Dynamic moduli of the MREs decreased with increasing the strain amplitude of applied harmonic load . The dynamic moduli and damping properties of the MREs increased with increasing the frequency and magnetic flux density . The anisotropic MREs showed higher dynamic moduli and magnetorheological effect than those of the isotropic ones . The MR effect of the MREs increased with the rise of the magnetic flux density . The dependence of dynamic moduli and loss factor on the frequency and magnetic flux density was numerically studied using four parameter fractional derivative viscoelastic model . The model was fitted well to experimental data for both isotropic and anisotropic MREs . The fitting of dynamic moduli and loss factor for the isotropic and anisotropic MREs is in good agreement with experimental results .

@highlight Dynamic properties of isotropic and anisotropic magnetorheological elastomers MREs were measured using double lap shear test.
@highlight Dynamic moduli of the MREs reduce with raising the strain amplitude. Dynamic stiffness and damping of the MREs increase with the rise of the frequency.
@highlight The magnetorheological MR effect dynamic stiffness and damping of the MREs enhance with increasing the magnetic flux density.
@highlight The anisotropic MREs showed higher dynamic moduli and greater MR effect than those of the isotropic ones.
@highlight Dependence of MRE dynamic properties on frequency and magnetic intensity was numerically studied by fractional derivative viscoelastic model.
