 In this paper experimental investigation and numerical modelling of the mechanical properties of polyvinylidene fluoride nanofibrous membranes produced by electrospinning are addressed . Membranes with three different diameters are fabricated by adjusting the needle collector distance during electrospinning . The fiber morphology and the physical properties of the resulting membranes are investigated using Scanning Electron Microscopy while their elastic properties are probed using conventional tensile tests . It is found that the membrane with the largest nanofiber diameters are filled with large beads while the contrary is found in the membrane with the smallest nanofiber diameter . Consequently the membrane with the smallest nanofiber diameter yielded the highest membrane Young s modulus thanks to better fiber packing and higher crystallinity in the nanofibers . Next the experimental results serve as basis for a pixel based finite element method which is applied directly on the SEM images of the membranes . This technique has the advantage of providing estimations of mechanical properties from the real structure of the membranes . Two parameters are needed for this linear elastic analysis the elastic modulus of a single fiber and the fiber percentage in the membrane . Results show that the model predictions are in good agreement with experimental data . These results suggest that the pixel based FEM could be a promising nondestructive alternative to the conventional tensile tests .

@highlight Polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF nanofibrous membranes are fabricated by electrospinning.
@highlight Different nanofiber morphologies are obtained by varying the needle collector distance.
@highlight Tensile tests on the membranes have shown that the mechanical properties are dependent on the nanofiber morphology.
@highlight Pixel based finite element method is applied directly on SEM images of the different membranes.
@highlight Coherence between numerical and experimental results shows its potential in characterizing the membrane elastic properties.
