 The present work aims to experimentally investigate the fire behaviour of water filled E glass reinforced thermoset resin hybrid filament wound composites tubes under static pressure . Heretofore fire endurance tests have been conducted on single and adhesively bonded tubes manufactured by CTRA Company . Furthermore internal pressure tests until failure have been performed on the burnt single and burnt joined tubes in order to quantify their abilities to contain the fluid after being exposed to heat flux . A comparison between the pressure behaviour of exposed to fire and non exposed tubes was also inspected . The identification of the fire induced damage mechanisms of the tubes was performed through optical microscopy Scanning Electron Microscopy and X ray tomographic observations . Finally the thermal analysis was carried out on burnt specimens in order to better understand the multiphysical phenomenon taking place during the fire endurance tests . The experimental results have revealed that the combustion process of both single and joined tubes was described in four steps namely tube heating resin degradation ignition and flame decay . Moreover it was found that no leakage was witnessed on the tubes outer surfaces during the fire endurance tests . The comparison between the pressure behaviour of the burnt single tube and the burnt joined one has proved that the single tube is much resistant under internal pressure loading than the burnt joined tube . Finally the fire induced damage included matrix cracking and delamination between the tube plies which was noticed from microscopic observations .

@highlight The fire behaviour of filament wound composites single and adhesively bonded tubes was investigated.
@highlight The fire induced damage mechanisms of composites tubes were identified.
@highlight A comparison between the internal pressure behaviour between single and adhesively bonded tubes was carried out.
@highlight Thermal analyses were performed on burnt specimens.
