 Stretchable conductive hydrogels have received significant attention due to their possibility of being utilized in wearable electronics and healthcare devices . In this work a semi interpenetrating polymer network strategy was employed to fabricate a set of flexible stretchable and conductive composite hydrogels composed of polyvinyl alcohol in the presence of glutaraldehyde as the crosslinker HCl as the catalyst and poly polystyrenesulfonate as the conductive medium . The results from FTIR Raman SEM and TGA indicate that a chemical crosslinking network and interactions of PVA and PEDOT PSS exist in the SIPN hydrogels . The swelling ratio of hydrogels decreased with increasing content of PEDOT PSS . Due to the chemical crosslinking network and interactions of PVA and PEDOT PSS PVA networks semi interpenetrated with PEDOT PSS exhibited excellent tensile and compression properties . The tensile strength and elongation at breakage of the composite hydrogels with 0.14wt PEDOT PSS were 70KPa and 239 respectively . The compression stress of the composite hydrogels with 0.14wt PEDOT PSS at a strain of 50 was about 216KPa . The electrical conductivity of the hydrogels increased with increasing PEDOT PSS content . The flexible stretchable and conductive properties endow the composite hydrogel sensor with a superior gauge factor of up to 4.4 . Coupling the strain sensing capability to the flexibility good mechanical properties and high electrical conductivity we consider that the designed PVA PEDOT PSS composite hydrogels have promising applications in wearable devices such as flexible electronic skin and sensitive strain sensors .

@highlight A flexible stretchable and conductive hydrogel is developed based on a semi interpenetrating polymer network SIPN strategy.
@highlight Chemically cross linked PVA and linear PEDOT PSS molecular chain organize the SIPN.
@highlight The tensile strength and elongation at break of the composite hydrogels with 0.14wt PEDOT PSS were 70KPa and 239 respectively.
@highlight The electrical conductivity and strain sensitivity of hydrogels was increased with increasing the content of PEDOT PSS.
@highlight The PVA PEDOT PSS hydrogels demonstrated good flexibility stretchability and strain sensitivity which has potential application in wearable electronics.
