 In the present work microfibrillated cellulose suspensions were produced by high pressure homogenization and subsequently used to fabricate MFC membranes by vacuum filtration followed by hot pressing . A polyketone was chemically modified by Paal Knorr reaction to graft imidazole functional groups along its backbone structure . The resulting polymer is referred to as PK50IM80 . By solution impregnation C 1 was immersed in an aqueous solution of PK50IM80 and subsequently hot pressed resulting in the fabrication of MFC PK50IM80 composite membranes . Another method referred to as solution mixing consisted in adding MFC into an aqueous solution of PK50IM80 followed by vacuum filtration and hot pressing to obtain MFC PK50IM80 composite membranes . C IMP and C MEZC were characterized by a wide range of analytical techniques including X ray photoelectron spectroscopy Fourier transform infrared chemical imaging scanning electron microscopy atomic force microscopy dynamical mechanical analysis tensile testing as well as streaming zeta potential and compared to C 1 . The results suggested that C IMP possess a more homogeneous distribution of PK50IM80 at their surface compared to C MEZC . C IMP was found to possess significantly enhanced Young s modulus compared to C 1 and C MEZC . The tensile strength of C IMP was found to improve significantly compared to C 1 whereas C 1 possessed significantly higher tensile index than C IMP and C MEZC . Furthermore the presence of PK50IM80 at the surface of MFC was found to significantly shift the isoelectric point of the membranes from pH 2.3 to a maximum value of 4.5 for C IMP . Above the IEP C IMP and C MEZC were found to possess significantly less negative electrical surface charges when compared to C 1 . Our approach may have implication to broaden the range of filtration applications of MFC based membranes .

@highlight Polyketone PK50 was modified with imidazole IM80 by Paal Knorr reaction.
@highlight MFC PK50IM80 composite membranes were produced by solution impregnation SI .
@highlight FTIR 2D chemical imaging was used to assess PK50IM80 surface distribution.
@highlight Membranes with improved tensile mechanical properties were obtained by SI.
@highlight PK50IM80 affects the electrical surface charges of the composite membranes.
