 In this paper two types of carbon black masterbatch with different carriers i.e . HDPE and LDPE are used to produce black compounds using three PE100 resins with various short chain branching distributions . Due to difference in short chain branch distribution the used polyethylene resins behave differently in microstructure development and long term creep behavior . The microstructural analysis using different DSC techniques and rheological measurements revealed more sensitivity of the polyethylene resin with uniform comonomer distribution to the carbon black aggregates and their polymeric carriers . The Full Notched Creep Test was performed to determine the long term creep performance of the black compounds it is shown that the sample having more uniform comonomer distribution is more resistant compared to other samples . On the other hand by addition of carbon black masterbatch resistance to slow crack growth in samples decreases since carbon black aggregates can act as stress concentration spots in the structure . However with addition of the masterbatch with LDPE carrier polymer the reduction of this value in samples is lower compared to one with HDPE carrier . The reason for this observation is that long branches of LDPE polymer enter the structure of lamellae in the PE100 resins making them more coherent and increasing the number of tie molecules . The samples that are blended with LDPE polymer have a rougher surface which means linkage between two sides of crack was stronger due to higher entanglement density in these samples . The impact test confirms the same trend as FNCT test with the sample containing LDPE carrier having higher impact strength .

@highlight Resin with more uniform SCB distribution is more affected by carbon black aggregates and the carrier polymer.
@highlight Carbon black aggregates act as stress concentration areas and decrease the creep lifetime of the pipe grade PE material.
@highlight For resistance to slow crack growth the branched carrier is preferred since its molecules form more tie molecules.
@highlight In processing temperature range no immiscibility is observed between PE100 resin and both HDPE and LDPE carriers.
