 Continuous outdoor exposure of athletics tracks can lead to an important degradation of their mechanical and aesthetical properties . In this work flat laboratory samples prepared from rubber blends of different colours were subjected to natural and artificial ageing to investigate their effect on the surface properties . Compositional variations demonstrated a generalized oxidization of the outer material layer together with surfacing of inorganic additives a small increase of the degradation temperature of the natural rubber component was reported similar to the one previously observed on bulk track samples . The smooth surface of the present samples allowed their testing using a microscratching technique able to mechanically probe the material within a few hundred microns below the top surface . The formation of a significantly harder outer crust layer was reported potentially impacting the track performance since it is exactly the locus of interaction between the athlete and the sport surface . In particular the increase in scratch hardness is accompanied by a significant reduction in the apparent friction coefficient . These surface modifications previously unreported in the literature are independent phenomena with respect to generalized bulk ageing . Microscratch data supported by microscopy evidenced a significantly varying sensitivity to ageing for the different colours . Moreover this sensitivity appeared strongly dependent on the applied ageing protocol . In view of these results care must be taken when accelerated artificial weathering is used to simulate long term natural ageing of these materials .

@highlight Microscratching was successfully used to mechanically probe aged surfaces.
@highlight The formation of a hard crust on the exposed track surface was reported.
@highlight Crust hardness and thickness vary greatly depending on track colour.
@highlight Colour sensitivity varies according to ageing type natural vs. artificial .
@highlight Hardness increase was also accompanied by a reduction in friction.
