 The recycling of poly mainly from bottles has been considered the most promising alternative to reduce municipal solid waste in Brazil . Stabilization processes of this polymer during recycling aim to maintain and improve its physicochemical properties and enhance its applicability . Several classes of additives may be used for PET stabilization such as antioxidants metal deactivator or anti hydrolysis . However there are no studies in literature about the synergistic or antagonistic effect of the individual or combined use of these additives for the stabilization of PET . The present investigation uses Design of Experiments to analyze the effects of the variables that influence the stabilization of post consumer PET . The variables were humidity and three different classes of additives represented by antioxidants a metal deactivator and an anti hydrolysis known as polycarbodiimide . Taking intrinsic viscosity into consideration the post consumer PET flakes were processed with different additive contents in order to understand both the individual and combined effects that influence stabilization and generate the response surfaces . The results showed that the samples stabilized with polycarbodiimide had an effective increase in intrinsic viscosity . In addition samples stabilized with antioxidants had lower contribution and the metal deactivator had no effect on the stabilization of recycled PET . Our findings indicate that the hydrolysis overlaps the thermo oxidative degradation effects and is the main form of PET degradation in the course of recycling . Moreover besides being marketed as an anti hydrolysis results suggest polycarbodiimide is an effective chain extender . Finally this study sheds some light on the influence of the main additives and variables that influence the degradation and stabilization of PET . The increase in PET intrinsic viscosity promotes its physicochemical properties and allows the recycled polymer to be used in broader market segments .

@highlight Several classes of additives were studied for PET stabilization such as antioxidants metal deactivator or anti hydrolysis.
@highlight Synergistic or antagonistic effects of the different additives classes on the prevention of PET degradation were evaluated.
@highlight Polycarbodiimide was a significant variable in increasing the intrinsic viscosity of recycled PET acting as chain extender.
@highlight Design of experiments DoE is a powerful tool to analyze the effects of different classes of additives in PET recycling.
@highlight The hydrolysis is the predominant degradation to be considered in the recycling process.
