 Carbon glass hybrid composite laminates are some of the most promising composites for lightweight applications . Sometimes these laminates are used in warm environment such as aircraft frame structures and this may affect their performance . In order to investigate this issue the present research aims to study the effect of temperatures on the impact behavior and pseudo ductile behaviour of CGHC in presence of different types of thermosets epoxy and thermoplastic acrylic poly methyl methacrylate PMMA . The experiments were started with making of CGHC laminates from different stacking sequences of unidirectional carbon and woven glass fibre layers using a vacuum assisted resin transfer method followed by curing treatment . In addition to CGHC laminates four other neat batches were prepared for comparison . The low velocity impact behaviour of the fabricated panels was evaluated at high temperatures according to ISO 6603 2 standard using drop tower while pseudo ductile behaviour and ductility index of the specimens were estimated based on the measured total energy and elastic energy . Also the low velocity impact response was modeled mathematically based on a modified energy balance model to predict the absorbed energies . Finally the failure mechanisms were examined using optical microscope to determine the influence of these damage growth on DI of the composites under different temperatures . The results showed that the impact energy response of both hybrid composites i.e . epoxy and PMMA was stable even as the temperature rose however carbon glass PMMA exhibited better performance compared with carbon glass epoxy with an increase in impact energy response estimated at 50 and 53 . Also the pseudo ductile phenomenon was strongly evident which facilitates the predictablility of failure .

@highlight Impact behaviour of carbon glass epoxy hybrid was studied at service temperature.
@highlight Impact behaviour of carbon glass PMMA hybrid was studied at service temperature.
@highlight Pseudo ductile behaviour of both hybrids was investigated at service temperature.
@highlight The low velocity impact response was modeled using a modified energy balance.
@highlight Carbon glass PMMA exhibited better performance at 50 25C and 53 80C .
