 Dynamic Mechanical Analysis systems are measurement devices for obtaining master curves and complex modules of viscoelastic materials such as rubbers . The conventional DMAs measurement systems in market have several limitations which restrict their ability for operating at high frequencies . Thus Williams Landel and Ferry relation is used to produce master curves and predict the material properties at high frequencies . In conventional DMAs experiments are done in a range of temperatures and then a master curve is made for a chosen reference temperature by shifting the measurements data to high frequencies . Therefore the obtained results which are not based on direct measurements can be inaccurate . In order to overcome this problem a new simple shear high frequency DMA system is designed and built to directly measure the dynamic mechanical properties of viscoelastic material at high frequencies and the strain levels sufficient for tire manufacturers . The new HFDMA can be used to test any viscoelastic materials which have glass transmission temperature lower than room temperature such as the Styrene butadiene rubber . The SBR is the base material for tire tread . The designing process of this new HFDMA is presented in this paper . The rubber specimen shape is chosen by taking into account the shear elastic wave effect bending buckling effect and heat generation in the specimen . The repeatability test is accomplished to ensure that the results obtained from the new HFDMA are repeatable and the repeatability uncertainty is about 0.04 . The new HFDMA is validated by comparing to the direct test results of conventional DMA at 100Hz . The direct high frequency complex shear modulus and damping factor are compared with the master curve of the conventional DMA developed by the use of WLF relation for SBR . This comparison revealed that the complex shear modulus and damping factor of the SBR obtained from the HFDMA at 5kHz and 0.05 strain amplitude are about 7 and 6.5 higher than those obtained from the conventional DMA respectively .

@highlight A new High Frequency Dynamic Mechanical Analysis HFDMA system is designed built and validated.
@highlight The complex shear modulus G and damping factor tan is measured directly at high frequencies.
@highlight By using the new HFDMA the use of WLF relation is omitted. .
@highlight The total uncertainty of the G and tan for HFDMA is about 0.8 and 0.15 with the probability of 95 respectively.
@highlight The Percentage of difference between HFDMA and commercial DMA for G and tan is reported. 6 By an increase in the test frequency the difference between results of the HFDMA and commercial DMA are increased.
