 Composite membranes based on poly and graphene oxide were prepared by solution casting method to be used as proton exchange membranes in fuel cell applications . Bisulfonation was employed as a strategy to enhance the proton conductivity of these membranes . First a direct sulfonation of the polymer matrix was accomplished by intra sulfonation of the polymer matrix with propane sultone followed by the inter sulfonation of the polymer chains using sulfosuccinic acid as a crosslinking agent . Furthermore the addition of graphene oxide as inorganic filler was also evaluated to enhance the proton conducting of the composite membranes . These membranes were fully characterized by scanning electron microscopy Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy thermogravimetric analysis and tensile tests . Besides the proton conductivity of these membranes in a fully hydrated state was also analyzed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy . The effect of the intra and inter sulfonation of the polymer matrix on the structural morphological thermal and mechanical properties of the membranes were determined . Increasing the density of sulfonic acid groups in the membranes resulted in a trade off between a better proton conductivity and a decreased thermal and mechanical stability . In contrast the incorporation of GO nanoparticles into the polymer matrix improved the thermal and mechanical stability of both bisulfonated composite membranes . The proton conductivity appreciably increased by the combination of bisulfonation and introduction of GO nanoparticles into the polymer matrix . The sPVA 30SSA GO composite membrane exhibited a proton conductivity of 1.95mS cm at 25C . The combination of the GO nanoparticles with the chemical bisulfonation approach of PVA allows thus assembling promising proton exchange membrane candidates for fuel cell applications .

@highlight GO buffers the thermal and mechanical stability decrease caused by bisulfonation.
@highlight A 30 of intra sulfonation of PVA is better than 15 to improve the
@highlight of PEM.
@highlight The
@highlight of PEM s increased a 175 after PVA bisulfonation and GO addition.
@highlight Bisulfonation of PVA and low GO percentage improve a 67 IEC and a 43 WU.
@highlight sPVA 30SSA GO membrane is a promising cost effective electrolyte for PEMFC.
