 Magneto rheological fluids are known as a category of smart materials because they exhibit sudden viscosity changes upon application of magnetic field . In contrast to normal fluids MRFs can sustain shear up to a yield stress . Stability and resistance against movement are important factors which determine the extent of application of a MRF . In this work new MRFs are developed using engine oil as carrier liquid carbonyl iron powder as magnetic particle stearic acid and CHRYSO Optima100 as additives . Stability of the samples is measured over time . The samples are exposed to magneto rheological tests with combined liquid and Peltier temperature control . Samples A B and C are prepared with low medium and high particle fractions respectively and tested at different temperatures but for samples D E F and G the rheology tests are conducted in room temperature but at variable magnetic field and shear rate . Inherent assumption of the existing constitutive models is that the flow curve of MRF is shifted by a field dependent yield stress . In this paper the effect of magnetic field is formulated and based on the physical properties of MRFs a new method is introduced for identification of material parameters . This method predicts the yield stress by comparing the storage and shear moduli . Obtained results are compared with those obtained from fitting the experimental flow curves and also with those obtained from Bingham model . It is shown that results of the proposed model are in good agreement with the experimental data . Moreover the calculated sedimentation ratio shows that simultaneous use of stearic acid and Optima100 significantly improves stability of MRFs .

@highlight New MRFs are developed using engine oil carbonyl iron powder stearic acid and Optima100 as additives.
@highlight The effect of magnetic field is formulated.Based on the physical properties of MRFs a new method is introduced for identification of material parameters.
@highlight This method predicts the yield stress by comparing the storage and shear moduli.
@highlight Sedimentation ratio shows that simultaneous use of stearic acid and Optima100 significantly improves stability of MRFs.
