 The improvement of miscibility between toughened Polyamide 6 and Styrene Butadiene Rubber was carried out using grafted Glycidyl Methacrylate . At first the compatibilizers were prepared using different comonomers Styrene and N vinyl pyrrolidone . Central composited design was distinctly applied to study the influence of Glycidyl Methacrylate content and comonomer GMA on the process of compatibilizer preparation . Four models were developed for Gel content and Degree of grafting for both comonomers using Design expert software . The models were used to calculate the optimum operating conditions and according to the Flory Huggins parameter and obtained results SBR co NVP g GMA was chosen as an effective compatibilizer . Afterward another CCD was employed to scrutinize the effect of various amounts and grafting degree of compatibilizer on morphology and mechanical properties of PA6 SBR . The Interparticle distance and polydispersity were studied using a Scanning electron microscope and also the Izod impact test inspected in order to evaluate the mechanical properties . Finally modulus and impact strength were optimized to minimize the former and maximize the latter . Also the most practical terms in the fitted model are statistically specified using F value . The root causes for the improvement of blend properties were attributed to a chemical reaction between epoxy groups in SBR g GMA and both the carboxylic and amine groups in PA6 . Impact strength and modulus 2017.2N mm

@highlight The effect of two types of comonomer was experimentally compared and the main reason for choosing NVP was theoretically investigated by Flory Huggins parameter.
@highlight The influence of each parameter of fitted models were identified using ANOVA table and F value.
@highlight The main causes for the emergence of gel in compatibilizers were inaugurated.
@highlight Optimization of operational conditions for preparing the compatibilizers was carried out using response surface methodology and desirable function.
@highlight The detrimental effect of gel formation on the cavitation and mechanical properties of the blends was explained using the Dompas model.
