 In this study the mechanical and thermal behavior of the steel particles fabricated epoxy based composites were investigated . The purpose of using SP was to find out their suitability and compatibility to be used as low cost fillers for epoxy based composites . A special steel cast metal mold was used to fabricate the composites via self casting method . The effect of SP concentration on various properties of the epoxy SP composites was explored . Another sample was prepared using the optimum loading with a special treatment using heat and encapsulation of the SP . Mechanical properties of the composites were analyzed through tensile flexural and impact testing . Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy were used to examine the structural and morphological properties . In addition thermal properties of the composites were analyzed with the thermogravimetric analyzer . Results indicated that the addition of PS into epoxy improved both tensile and flexural strength up to 98.5 and 147.6 respectively compared to the neat epoxy . The decomposition temperature was raised nearly 18C for adding 30wt SP which was the maximum among all other composites . Results showed that 30wt of SP was the optimum loading for the better properties of the composites . In addition the preheat treatment of the particles and the encapsulation process established a better interaction between the epoxy and the particles which resulted in the superior performance of the composites compared to the other samples . Overall the improved mechanical and thermal properties of the SP fabricated epoxy composites indicate that the epoxy SP composite is a good candidate for structural and high temperature applications .

@highlight Preheated and encapsulated steel particles were used to fabricate epoxy composites.
@highlight The tensile strength of the composite was improved by 98.5 compared to the neat epoxy.
@highlight The flexural strength and flexural modulus were improved by 147.6 and 54.05 respectively than that of neat epoxy.
@highlight The impact strength was improved by 71.8 than neat epoxy.
@highlight Thermal properties of the composites were influenced by the loading of steel particles.
