 Carbon nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes graphene and their hybrid have been studied extensively . Despite having excellent properties of CNTs and graphene have not yet been fully realized in the polymer composites . During fabrication agglomeration of CNTs and restacking of graphene is a serious concern that results in the degradation of properties of nanomaterials into the final composites . To improve the dispersion of CNTs and restacking graphene in the present research work we focused on the hybridization of graphene oxide and CNTs . Multiwalled carbon nanotubes functionalized carbon nanotubes and graphene oxide carbon nanotubes reinforced acrylonitrile butadiene styrene composites were prepared separately by vacuum filtration followed by hot compression molding . Further dynamic mechanical analysis and electromagnetic interference shielding properties of ABS composites reinforced carbon nanofillers were investigated . The dynamic mechanical properties of polymers strongly depend on the adhesion of fillers and polymer entanglement density of polymer chains in the presence of carbon fillers . The dynamic mechanical characteristics such as storage loss modulus and damping factor of prepared composites were significantly affected by the incorporation of MWCNTs FCNTs and GCNTs . Maximum EMI shielding effectiveness of 49.6dB was achieved for GCNT ABS composites which were highest compared to MWCNTs ABS composites and FCNTs ABS composites in the Ku band . These results depict the great potential of GCNTs ABS composites to be used in various applications of efficient heat dissipative EMI shielding materials for electronic devices .

@highlight Graphene carbon nanotubes hybrid is reduced the problem of agglomeration of CNTs and restacking of graphene.
@highlight The maximum EMI shielding effectiveness of 49.6dB was achieved for GCNT ABS composites which was much higher compared to MWCNTs ABS and FCNTs ABS composites.
@highlight Dynamic mechanical properties of polymers strongly depend on the adhesion of filler and polymer matrix.
