 Coiled polymer actuators are a type of artificial muscles that are a promising development in the field of smart materials . The coefficient of thermal expansion of monofilament polyamide fibers is a crucial parameter for understanding the actuation of coiled fibers . The main purpose of this work is to develop a new methodology for estimating the coefficient of thermal expansion and the transition temperature of monofilament polymer fibers . In the experimental procedure axial deformations of monofilament polyamide fiber samples were induced by temperature variations using a controlled thermal system . These deformations were determined from images of polyamide samples using the digital image correlation method . Two different approaches based on distinct temperature conditions were conducted . An alternative model with three parameters including the coefficient of thermal expansion was introduced to describe the thermal mechanical behavior of monofilament polyamide fibers . Moreover polyamide samples were also characterized using four conventional methodologies . Results indicated that the coefficient of thermal expansion changed of a modest negative value to a large negative value and this transition occurred around the glass transition temperature of the polyamide . The thermal expansion curves demonstrate good repeatability and all estimated parameters were in accordance with literature indicating that the proposed approach can be suitable for the proposed study . This investigation may help in understanding of the intrinsic thermal mechanical behavior of polymeric monofilaments employed as actuators .

@highlight Performance of twisted than coiled polyamides actuators depends on the thermal response of polyamides fibers.
@highlight On polymers the coefficient of thermal expansion CTE depends on several conditions of the material including their form.
@highlight A new methodology for estimating the thermal expansion and Tg of polymer fibers using DIC method is proposed.
@highlight The CTE changes from a modest negative value to a large negative one and this transition occurred around the Tg.
@highlight An alternative model was introduced to describe the thermal mechanical behavior of polyamide samples.
