 An experimental and semi analytical study of distortion of asymmetric composite laminates with different cooling rates and lay ups has been presented . In this study thermomechanical constitutive equations of thin composite laminates are developed using basic viscoelastic constitutive law considering chemical and thermal effects with time temperature dependent material properties . To solve a fully scouple problem both the thermochemical and thermomechanical constitutive equations are formulated . The general heat conduction equation known as the Fourier Biot equation viscoelastic laws Boltzmann superposition principle and composite equations are utilized to formulate thin composite laminates . A static model with constant properties in ambient temperature and a transient model by obtaining constitutive equations are simulated . Results are compared with experimental data . Changing lay up from cross ply to angle ply and then quasi isotropic will increase the value of maximum distortion . Results indicated that the increasing cooling rate will increase the value of the maximum distortion . The differences between FEM results with static analysis of different lay ups and experimental specimens that cooled in the oven environment and refrigerator is about 3 35 and 55 respectively . The differences between FEM simulation with transient analysis of different lay ups and experimental specimens that cooled in the environment and the refrigerator is less than 9 .

@highlight The thermomechanical and thermochemical equations are developed for composites based on viscoelastic theory.
@highlight Experimental results indicate that increasing the cooling rates can significantly increase the deformation.
@highlight Results indicate that different lay ups can significantly change the final shape of an asymmetric composite laminate.
@highlight Results of static analyses are closer to experimental results in the slowest cooling rate that is cooled in the Oven.
@highlight Only transient analysis with time temperature dependent material properties could predict the final shape of the asymmetric laminate.
