 The capillary extrusion of polypropylene and high density polyethylene immiscible blends was studied in this work by rheo particle image velocimetry . The PP HDPE blends were prepared by single screw extrusion and extruded through a transparent capillary die at a temperature of 200C and concentrations of 80 20 60 40 40 60 and 20 80wt respectively . PIV measurements described accurately the flow behavior of PP HDPE blends and revealed continuous velocity profiles in the die without macroscopic phase separation for all the blends in the resolution range of the PIV technique . The flow behavior of all the blends was shear thinning type and their viscosities laid in between the values corresponding to the neat polymers and increased in an exponential way along with the concentration of the highest viscosity component in the blend . Also it was found that the extruded blends acquired a stratified morphology and that HDPE mitigates extrudate distortions in PP meanwhile PP eliminates slip and flow instabilities in HDPE by migrating to the region of highest shear stresses in the die . Migration of PP to the capillary wall was corroborated by Raman spectroscopy measurements on the periphery of solid extrudates . Finally via calculations of the density of the molten blends under flow using the velocity profiles in the die we show that the homopolymers are compatible in the molten state and follow a simple inverse relation for their density and an exponential one for their viscosity .

@highlight Rheo PIV measurements describe accurately the flow behavior of PP HDPE blends.
@highlight Rheo PIV measurements reveal continuous velocity profiles in PP HDPE blends without macroscopic phase separation.
@highlight PP HDPE extruded blends exhibit a stratified morphology.
@highlight Raman spectroscopy evidences migration of the lowest viscosity component in the blend.
@highlight Density of the molten blends follows a simple inverse relation suggesting compatibility of PP and HDPE in the molten state.
@highlight Viscous behavior of PP HDPE blends follows an exponential trend with increasing the content of the most viscous phase
