 Climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing humankind . Higher temperatures and changes in precipitation will lead to a greater frequency of drought wildfire and intense storms that will threaten systems already vulnerable to climate and anthropogenic change . These threats will transform carbon delivery across the terrestrialaquatic interface . This study investigated how anthropogenic activities and climate influence organic carbon delivery using Englebright Lake a reservoir in California as a model system . Organic carbon accumulation in three depositional settings was analyzed using fatty acid sterol and lignin biomarkers and compared to records of watershed events to determine responses to dam construction mining impacts and flood events . Concentrations of long chain saturated fatty acids plant sterols epi brassicasterol brassicasterol and lignin biomarkers increased by an order of magnitude in foreset deposits in response to flood events . Hydraulic mining for gold was recorded as near zero concentrations of terrigenous biomarkers in topset deposits whereas decreases in diacids coincident with increases in aquatic sterols in bottomset deposits reflected the response to dam construction . Organic carbon accumulation was controlled by event magnitude and duration and climate driven event signals were up to an order of magnitude larger than anthropogenic driven event signals . These data demonstrate the importance of understanding the depositional environment because the ability to characterize three different depositional settings in Englebright Lake enabled us to identify the smaller anthropogenic signals that would have been obscured by the much larger response to climate events .

@highlight Magnitude and depositional setting govern preservation of events in lake sediments.
@highlight Terrestrial lipid and lignin biomarkers identify flood records in foreset deposits.
@highlight Dam construction causes decrease in diacids as suspended load transport is reduced.
@highlight Massive layers of organic matter poor sediments mark response to hydraulic mining.
