 HDPE is commonly used in pipelines and piping for industrial and societal infrastructure . Like most polymers HDPE s mechanical properties are sensitive to temperature and show time dependent properties . The temperature effect on both the short and long term compressive and tensile behavior of HDPE in a combined manner have not been investigated thoroughly in the past . Especially the constitutive behavior of HDPE incorporating temperature effects on its long and short term behavior could be essential when designing such infrastructural components . Hence the temperature effect on the short and long term response in tension and compression of HDPE is investigated in this study . The short term tensile and compressive stress strain behavior at 23 40 60 and 80C were obtained through experiments at constant displacement rate and temperature . Tensile and compressive stress relaxation behavior at 23 40 50 60 70 and 80C were investigated through stress relaxation tests . The experimental results from the short term tests showed that both the tensile and compression moduli and yield strength of HDPE decrease linearly with the increase in temperature . It is also shown from the long term test that relaxation modulus in tension and compression are highly dependent on temperature . Based on the experimental results the constitutive three network model was calibrated and implemented in a FEA model which was then validated through a three point bending relaxation test with a prescribed temperature profile . The FEA model and the calibrated model results agree markedly well with the experimental results which indicates that the model can be used reliably to predict the temperature dependent short and long term behavior of HDPE in design and analysis of HDPE components .

@highlight Temperature effect on the short and long term response of HDPE is investigated experimentally
@highlight The short term tensile and compressive stress strain behavior at 23 40 60 and 80C is obtained experimentally
@highlight Stress relaxation e.g. long term behavior at 23 40 50 60 70 and 80C is investigated through stress relaxation tests.
@highlight Based on the experimental results a constitutive model is calibrated and implemented in a FEA model.
@highlight The constitutive model is validated through a three point bending 3PB relaxation test with markedly good agree.
