 The recent rapid development of technology has demanded smart materials with tailoring a bridge between macro properties and sophisticated micro and nano characteristic . Principally shape memory polymers will come to play as an indispensable part of numerous aspects of human activity . Nevertheless the low mechanical strength and thermal conductivity of SMPs have primarily restricted their applications . To impart shape memory behaviour and mechanical properties we fabricated a series of composites by a feasible and commercial melt mixing method . Thus a series of fast heat actuated shape memory polymer composite with greatly enhanced stretch ability mechanical stiffness dynamic modulus rheological qualities recovery and fixity ratio was prepared by incorporating multi walled carbon nanotubes montmorillonite and CNT MMT hybrid into thermoplastic polyurethane . Noteworthy CNT based specimens exhibited superior mechanical properties than those of MMT based samples and interestingly the hybrid composites featured a synergistic effect due to the sacrificial role of MMT nanoplatelets for adjusting the dispersion of CNT nanotubes . Microstructural observations indicated that the crystallization percentages of the composites were generally higher than that of pristine TPU therefore the shape memory performance of the specimens improved notably in the case of the hybrid composites owing to creating more interfacial zone with CNT MMT nanoparticles as compared to other simple composites . This study proved that the simultaneous incorporation of CNT and MMT nanoparticles not only granted outstanding mechanical properties but also improved the overall shape memory behaviour of the composites by systematical localization of the nanoparticles without any functionalization or modification .

@highlight Engineering of pioneer nanocomposites based on thermoplastic polyurethane TPU containing three types of nanoparticles Carbon nanotube CNT and montmorillonite platelets MMT and hybrid filler CNT MMT .
@highlight Employing melt mixing as a feasible and commercialized method for the fabrication of nanocomposites.
@highlight Assessment of microstructure property of TPU CNT TPU MMT and TPU CNT MMT nanocomposites comprising 1 3 and 5wt nanoparticles.
@highlight TPU CNT MMT nanocomposites showed a synergistic effect on the mechanical properties shape fixity and recovery speed.
