 Photochemical transformations of photoactive diketone derivatives 1 2 diphenylethane 1 2 dione and 1 4 bisbenzene and the effects of their transformations on changes in the molecular characteristics and hydrolytic properties of poly and polylactide matrices are reported . Studies were performed in a broad dopant concentration range of 0.27.5wt . Structural changes were observed by FTIR spectroscopy . FTIR spectroscopy proved the progressive transformation of BZ to benzoyl peroxides and in the case of PCL the formation of polar groups . Changes in molecular characteristics were observed in GPC traces . Irradiation of the doped polymer films at 400nm under an air atmosphere resulted mainly in the degradation of the polymer matrices . Additionally high dopant concentrations in PCL led to partially crosslinked structures with gel contents up to 15 . The photochemical transformation of dopants had a large impact on the PCL matrices compared to that of the PLA matrices . A subsequent hydrolysis process was investigated by determining the extractable products as well as using GPC . Hydrolysis of irradiated PCL samples showed a significant acceleration of hydrolysis compared to that of nonirradiated samples . Furthermore the hydrolysis rate gradually increased with increasing dopant concentration . The PCL crosslinking and degradation is adjustable by the type of dopant concentration of dopant and intensity of light during irradiation of PCL . In contrast a photochemical pretreatment had no observable effect on the hydrolysis of PLA under the investigated conditions .

@highlight Photochemical transformation of diketone derivatives doped in PLA and PCL affect their molecular characteristics and hydrolysis.
@highlight Degradation of doped matrices at 400 nm irradiation was the main process.
@highlight Higher dopant conc. caused partial PCL crosslinking.
@highlight The crosslinking and degradation processes are tunable by type and concentration of dopant as well as intensity of light.
@highlight Irradiated PCL samples showed significantly accelerated hydrolysis while no effect on hydrolysis of PLA was observed.
