 Adding high loadings of nanoparticles can remarkably alter the functionality of polymer nanocomposite foams . Therefore this dramatic change was studied at the percolation threshold as a point to predict the properties of foamed nanocomposites using the viscoelastic characteristics of un foamed ones . In this research the effect of incorporating 1040wt of ZnO nanoparticles on rheological properties of PS ZnO samples was investigated . Then these samples were foamed at processing temperatures of 80 and 120C to study morphology and electromagnetic properties . First the rheological study showed that the storage modulus of nanocomposites increased significantly above 20wt of nanoparticles . A connected network of nanoparticles altered the microstructure of nanocomposite at this rheological percolation . The morphological results show a higher cell density for foamed samples above the rheological percolation . From electromagnetic properties the effect of ZnO connected network is obvious on the absorption enhancement for 30 and 40wt and only for 40wt of ZnO at 80 and 120C respectively . Therefore the viscoelastic properties of samples are still dominant at the lower temperature but the foam structure became more important at the higher temperatures . This shows that the role of the filler network faded at the higher temperature and electromagnetic properties were changed with the foam structure . The microstructure expansion results in the decrease of filler amount at a fixed volume of foams so more filler fraction is required to form a connected network of nanoparticles .

@highlight Filler network changed the viscoelastic properties of nanocomposites significantly.
@highlight Rheological properties can predict the electromagnetic EM properties.
@highlight Temperature alteration applied to study processing condition on EM properties.
@highlight Absorption and reflection increased abruptly in rheological percolation.
@highlight More filler fraction is required to form a connected network at higher expansions.
