 Selecting the best brake friction composite composition amongst a set of natural fibres reinforced composites using hybrid optimization method ELECTRE II entropy is discussed in this article . Three sets of natural fibres containing different amounts of banana hemp and pineapple reinforced brake friction composites were tested according to IS 2742 regulations on a chase friction testing machine . The experimental results have been discussed in terms of seven performance defining attributes such as coefficient of friction fade wear friction stability coefficient friction recovery friction fluctuations and friction variability coefficient . The composite containing 5wt pineapple fiber exhibit the highest coefficient of friction whereas wear performance and friction stability remain highest for 5wt hemp fiber based composites . The recovery performance remains highest for the composite containing 15wt banana fiber while fade friction variability and fluctuations remain lowest for 10wt banana fiber reinforced composites . The tribological results indicate that the inclusion of disparate natural fibers in varying amounts may differently affect the tribological performances and therefore to choose the best brake friction composite satisfying the maximum beneficial criteria hybrid ELECTRE II entropy optimization technique is used . Brake friction composite containing 10wt banana fibers was ranked first in meeting the desired performance tribological properties . A comparison of this optimization approach with other multi criteria decision making techniques is also made for validating the performance ranking of these composites .

@highlight Brake friction composites containing varying proportions of banana pineapple and hemp fiber were developed.
@highlight The Hybrid ELECTRE II entropy approach was used to determine the performance ranking of brake friction composites.
@highlight Optimum tribological properties were obtained for 10 wt banana fiber based friction composites.
@highlight The ELECTRE II entropy approach was compared with various MCDM optimization techniques.
@highlight All MCDM optimization techniques give the same performance ranking of brake friction composites.
