 This work unravels and sheds light on interphase formation in epoxy alumina nanocomposites . To probe interphase and its affiliation with dielectric properties three kinds of samples are investigated viz . neat epoxy nanocomposites and nanocomposites . Characteristics information received from thermogravimetric analysis and dielectric properties measurements insinuates a change in chemistry and molecular mobility at the filler matrix interfaces . Using chemical structure of different constituent phases and FTIR spectroscopic analysis a chemical interactive model is presented to elicit interphase formation in composites . The impact of interfacial interaction on long term performance of the nanodielectrics is examined by conducting endurance tests under divergent ac stress . Nanocomposites exhibit a clear superior erosion resistance over the neat polymer . Under the application of cyclic non uniform ac stress progressive erosion is likely to initiate and grow from high stress regions . Nanofillers may act as an obstacle and force the eroded channels to move through a zig zag path . Additionally surface treated nanofillers owing to their strong chemical bonding with polymer matrix expected to retard damage process by alleviating fatigue and distributing electromechanical stress between filler and polymer matrix . The results of this study show compelling evidence of interphases and their prominence on dielectric properties . Moreover this study provides an intellectual foundation to vivify how engineering the chemistry of the interfaces may help in designing nanodielectrics with enhanced functionalities .

@highlight Dielectric properties exhibited by Polymer nanocomposites PNCs are governed by interfacial interaction mechanisms.
@highlight Dielectric measurements in conjunction with FTIR spectroscopy confirm the formation of interphase in PNCs.
@highlight Interphase plays a vital role in controlling short as well as long term performance of nanodielectrics.
@highlight Enhanced interfacial interaction should effectively alleviate fatigue and make the nanocomposites damage tolerant.
