 Dielectric elastomer has been recently explored extensively to make diverse soft actuators and energy harvesting devices . The lack of study on the rupture behavior under the influence of temperature hinders further applications where heat generation and accumulation are unavoidable . In this paper an experimental study has been carried out to investigate the effect of temperature on the rupture behavior of acrylic dielectric elastomer . By using VHB 4910 films with and without an initial crack the fracture energy at different temperature and stretch rate is measured by pure shear test . The storage modulus and phase angle have been investigated by dynamic mechanical analysis . The images of defects and rupture surface are provided by scanning electron microscope . It is found that the stretch at rupture is insensitive to the temperature for both pristine and precut samples . In addition the maximum nominal stress and fracture energy linearly decrease with environmental temperature especially at high stretch rate . Furthermore we measure the stretch at rupture for rectangular strips with a single edge notch under uniaxial tension and compare them with the theoretical prediction using nonlinear fracture mechanics based on the measured fracture energy . The results obtained in this paper will give a reference to the engineering design and applications of dielectric elastomer especially for those working at different temperatures .

@highlight The effect of temperature on the rupture behavior of dielectric elastomer is investigated by pure shear test.
@highlight The fracture energy is found to be insensitive to temperature at low stretch rate.
@highlight The fracture energy linearly decreases with temperature especially at high stretch rate.
@highlight The stretch to rupture is found to be insensitive to the environmental temperature.
@highlight The stretch to rupture for rectangular strips under uniaxial tension is predicted based on nonlinear fracture mechanics.
@highlight The results suggest the importance of temperature on the engineering design and applications of dielectric elastomer.
