 Aramid fiber reinforced by polyamide composites are excepted to have good interfacial matching due to their similar chemical interactions of hydrogen bonding . Thus polarizing optical microscope transverse fiber bundle test and droplet micro debonding technique were respectively performed to characterize interfacial crystallization adhesion and shear behaviors of AF PA6 composites with different thermal treatments . Both interface adhesion and AF fibrillation are enhanced with decreasing cooling rate or increasing annealing temperature due to the increased interfacial transcrystallization interaction . However fast cooled interface also presents a high interfacial shear strength due to favorable normal residual stress . The apparent IFSS is believed to be a result of competition between crystallization enhancing interfacial interaction interfacial mismatching aggravating debonding and an uncertain residual stress positive or negative for load transfer . TFB failure mechanism including AF fibrillation and kinking are schematically presented . Fibrillation strength of AF is found to follow Weibull distribution evaluated by droplet micro debonding technique .

@highlight The study attempts to explore the underlying rules of fibrillation in aramid fibers.
@highlight The study aiming to provide some useful and innovative perspectives to further simulation studies.
@highlight The factors which affect both of the aramid fiber polyamide 6 composites interface adhesion and aramid fiber fibrillation were fully investigated.
@highlight The relationship between interfacial shear strength and transcrystallinity thickness for aramid fiber polyamide 6 composites were systematically studied.
@highlight In this study fibrillation strength of aramid fiber has been found to be a non constant value but follows the Weibull distribution which is expected to provide some useful conclusions on accurately analyzing failure behaviors of aramid fiber reinforced composites with fibrillations for simulation studies.
