 The novel flame retarded unsaturated polyester resins have been developed and prepared by introduction of high nitrogen content additives into the polymer matrix in order to verify their effectiveness in the formation of swollen carbonaceous char inhibiting the burning process of the polymer . The intumescent flame retardants based on mixture or metal complex were developed and characterized by particle size distribution Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy nuclear magnetic resonance powder X ray diffraction elemental analysis and thermogravimetric analysis . The evaluation of the efficiency of IFRs addition on the flammability and smoke emission of the unsaturated polyester resins was carried out using the fire hazard limiting oxygen index and cone calorimeter tests as well as smoke density chamber tests . The volatile compounds evolved during the burning of materials were determined using a steady state tube furnace and a gas chromatograph with mass spectrometer . Furthermore the prepared materials were subjected to differential scanning calorimetry thermogravimetric analysis and water resistance tests . The mechanical properties of the materials were investigated using Shore D hardness and dynamic mechanical thermal analysis . The structural evaluation of the manufactured materials and samples after the cone calorimetry tests was carried out using scanning electron microscopy . It was found that the incorporation of new intumescent flame retardants led to the formation of carbonaceous char layers inhibiting the decomposition process and limiting the smoke emission . The most promising results were obtained for the resin containing complex designated as ZN3AT for which the highest reduction in maximum values of heat release rate 419kW m

@highlight The intumescent flame retardants based on mixture or metal complexes were developed.
@highlight The substances led to the formation of swollen char inhibiting the burning process.
@highlight Increase in release of non flammable gases from flame retarded UP were noted.
@highlight Flame retardants decreased the amount of toxic burning products evolution from UP.
