 The aim of this paper is to study and compare the mechanical behavior of woven basalt and woven glass epoxy composites at high strain rates in order to assess the possibility of replacing glass fiber composites with basalt fiber composites for aircraft secondary structures such as radomes fairings wing tips etc . Both composites were produced using the same epoxy matrix the same manufacturing technique and with comparable densities fiber volume fractions and static stiffnesses . Dynamic tensile and shear experiments were performed using a split Hopkinson tension bar in addition to reference quasi static experiments to compare both material behaviors over a wide range of strain rates . Normalized results with respect to the material density and fiber volume fraction showed that basalt epoxy composite had higher elastic stiffness ultimate tensile strength ultimate tensile strain and absorbed energy in tension compared to glass epoxy composite . This suggests a promising potential in replacing glass fibers composites with basalt fiber composites in aircraft secondary structures and more generally components prone to impact . However for the basalt epoxy composite improvements in the fiber matrix adhesion and in the manufacturing technique are still required to enhance their shear properties compared to glass fiber composites and fully exploit the potential of basalt epoxy composites in aeronautical applications .

@highlight The aim is to assess the possibility of replacing glass composites with basalt composites in aircraft secondary structures.
@highlight High strain rate behavior of woven glass and woven basalt fiber reinforced epoxy composites was studied and compared.
@highlight A split Hopkinson tension bar was used for the high strain rate tests and high speed 3D DIC for strain measurments.
@highlight Basalt composites showed higher tensile strength stiffness and absorbed energy in tension compared to glass composites.
@highlight Improvements in the fiber matrix adhesion of basalt composites are still required for better shear properties.
