 Investigations on industrial produced polyethylene terephthalate were carried out in the temperature range from the glassy to the liquid state . In differential scanning calorimetry experiments the sample passed through this temperature range several times at different speeds interrupted by isothermal segments . Thereby the caloric behaviour observed in earlier publications could be confirmed . A closer look reveals variations in the behaviour depending on the initial state of the sample . The thermal and mechanical boundary conditions seem to have a long term influence on the semi crystalline state . Independent of the initial state a fundamental decrease in the crystallization tendency could be observed after each temperature loop . The most likely explanation for that is an increase in molecular weight in the higher temperature ranges . This leads to an increase in viscosity as it occurs in the solid poly condensation process . Mechanical experiments were also carried out in the temperature range investigated but only at different isothermal levels due to experimental limits . For these experiments theoretical considerations were made on the basis of the viscoelastic generalization of Hookes law . These show the influence of the significant decrease of the ratio between shear and bulk stiffness in the glass transition range . While the uniaxial tensile mode fail the uniaxial compression mode with suppressed transversal expansion needs the fluid like behaviour to determine the bulk modulus instead of the longitudinal modulus . The experimental investigations confirm these theoretical results . Concerning the actual purpose of the mechanical investigation Struiks protocol is used at higher isothermal levels . As a result crystallization related changes in the mechanical behaviour could be observed .

@highlight DSC experiments starts with different initial states of the PET polymer structure.
@highlight DSC experiments contains repeated heating and cooling.
@highlight DSC experiments were executed with AlO
@highlight as release agent in the DSC Cup.
@highlight Three dimensional viscoelasticity is considered with respect mechanical experiments.
@highlight Direct experimental investigation of the crystallization in the time domain.
