 The interest of additive manufacturing with 3D printing increases day by day which provides improved mechanical electrical magnetic and thermal properties of 3D parts . The production of 3D parts with the stereolithography method which allows it to be produced with high precision resolution and complex geometries distinguishes itself from other alternative additive manufacturing methods . However studies on the preparation of functional 3D polymer nanocomposites with the SLA method are quite limited . This study aims to produce silver and or copper based 3D polymer nanocomposites for enhancing its mechanical strength thermal stability and electrical conductivity . Mono and bimetallic nanoparticles have been in situ synthesized by selective irradiation of laser beam method using a commercial SLA device . In this method metal acrylate containing photocurable resin is not only cured but also leads to thermal decomposition of metal ions into nanoparticles to form functional 3D structures . The mechanical electrical and thermal properties of polymer nanocomposites are characterized in detail . As a result of the analysis the nanoparticles with an average diameter of 2555nm are well dispersed in the polymer matrix without agglomeration . The temperature at which 5 weight loss of Ag and Cu based polymer structures is measured as 179.3C while the glass transition temperature is found to be 223.81C . Most importantly the resistance values are significantly decreased from 456.62G to 1.50G by increasing the amount of Ag addition at 3D polymeric structures . Therefore this study allows the production of polymer nanocomposites not only in complex structures but also in desired properties especially for electrically conductive materials capacitors and electronic applications .

@highlight Silver and Copper nanoparticles have been in situ synthesized by selective irradiation of laser beam method using a commercial stereolithography device.
@highlight Up to 1 wt. of metal acrylate in photocurable resin nanoparticles can be well dispersed in polymer matrix.
@highlight Average particular particle dimensions of silver and copper are 25nm and 55nm respectively.
@highlight Mechanical and thermal properties relies on the amount of copper and or silver added into polymeric structures.
@highlight Resistance values are significantly decreased from 456 62 G Gigaohm to 1 50 G by increasing the amount of Ag addition.
