 In this paper polypropylene was used as raw material to prepare rectangular parts . The temperature change data of the reinforcement with different molding parameters during the filling process were collected by using the injection molding temperature visualization experimental analysis platform . The electronic universal mechanical testing machine was used for mechanical testing and the micro morphology of co injection self reinforced composites parts and conventional parts with different temperature fields was observed and analyzed by Polarizing microscope and Wide angle X ray diffraction and the dimensionless equations among four variables were established . From the results it was found that the tensile properties of CI SRCs parts with different molding parameters are superior to that of conventional parts with a maximum increase of 18.64 . The overall performance of CI SRCs parts is positively correlated with the performance of the reinforcement and the performance of reinforcement is mainly determined by the area ratio of skin layer . The difference in the micromorphology characteristics of the parts depends on the change in the temperature field . Therefore through microscope observation and simulation software analysis it was obtained that the theoretical critical temperature field forming the orientation skin of the parts was 154.88C and the temperature visualization platform was used to correct the critical temperature field obtained by simulation and the real critical temperature field was about 170C . In the randomized trials the simulated and actual area ratio of skin layer were in good agreement with a maximum deviation of 8.9 which proved that it was reliable to estimate the skin layer area ratio based on theoretical critical temperature field through the change of molding parameters and then to predict the performance change of the parts .

@highlight The performance advantages of the self reinforcing material are verified by experiments.
@highlight Independently built a set of visualized experimental analysis platform.
@highlight The theoretical critical temperature field of skin layer of the polypropylene was 154.88 C and the true field was about 170 C.
@highlight The simulated and actual area ratio of skin layer were in good agreement with a deviation range of less than 10 .
@highlight The dimensionless equations among variable parameters morphology and properties were established.
