 Numerical modelling of the combustion of flexible polyurethane foam is challenging as the structural collapse and shrinkage of the foam complicate its pyrolysis and two fuel items are involved in the combustion . Two layer pyrolysis models were established based on the bench scale tests over the past decade but the accuracy was limited when simulating the combustion of FPUF with larger geometries . To improve the accuracy of the numerical simulation small scale experiments were conducted to investigate the combustion of FPUF with a larger geometry . Firstly numerical simulations using a two layer pyrolysis model proposed in the most recent research were performed to simulate the combustion of FPUF in the small scale experiments . It was found that the heat release rate was over predicted in the initial combustion stage . Subsequently based on the analysis of the visual and measured data obtained from the small scale experiments a three layer model was proposed to describe the pyrolysis of FPUF in flaming combustion . The three layer model was validated with the comparison of the predicted and experimental data . The results indicate that the numerical simulation using the three layer model has a better performance in replicating the combustion of FPUF under well ventilated conditions . While the capability of the three layer model was limited when it was used to simulate the combustion of FPUF in under ventilated conditions as it is found that ventilation influences the HRR of FPUF to a significant extent .

@highlight A small scale experimental facility was designed to investigate the combustion of flexible polyurethane foam FPUF .
@highlight The flow of condensed fuel obviously effects the combustion of FPUF with larger geometries.
@highlight A three layer model was established to numerical simulate the combustion of FPUF.
@highlight The three layer model can better simulate the combustion of FPUF.
@highlight Combustion of FPUF is also significantly influenced by the ventilation.
