 Thermally induced phase separation has prompted a great deal of interest especially as an effective approach to fabricate ultra high molecular weight polyethylene microporous membranes . However the existing utilized diluents for the TIPS process of UHMWPE suffer from environmental and health issues . Herein we utilized low molecular weight polybutene bearing similar structure with liquid paraffin but inferior miscibility with UHMWPE relative to UHMWPE LP blend as a diluent for the TIPS process of UHMWPE . The phase separation behavior of UHMWPE PB blends were investigated by the combination of rheological measurements optical microscopy as well as differential scanning calorimeter . The results suggest that PB is fully miscible with UHMWPE at elevated temperature but yielding a more sensitive phase separation behavior in respect to LP in TIPS process because PB has weaker interaction with UHMWPE . The Jeziorny method analysis indicates that the crystallization mechanism of UHMWPE LP blends is in line with that of UHMWPE PB blends which includes nucleation and growth as well as their dynamic competition . Moreover compared to those of UHMWPE LP blends UHMWPE PB blends display higher TIPS temperature and faster TIPS rate along with faster overall crystallization rate further demonstrating that PB can accelerate phase separation rates and enhance the efficiency of TIPS process .

@highlight The phase separation behavior of UHMWPE PB blends were investigated by the combination of rheological measurements optical microscopy and differential scanning calorimeter DSC .
@highlight Low molecular weight polybutene PB bearing similar structure with liquid paraffin LP but inferior miscibility with UHMWPE relative to UHMWPE LP blend was utilized as a diluent for the thermally induced phase separation TIPS process of UHMWPE.
@highlight PB displays fully miscible with UHMWPE at elevated temperature but can accelerate phase separation rates and enhance the efficiency of TIPS process.
@highlight The crystallization mechanism of UHMWPE LP blends is in line with that of UHMWPE PB blends.
