 In this paper crosslinked polyacrylate latex with tertiary amine groups and base latex without tertiary amine groups were prepared by emulsion polymerization using butyl acrylate as the monomer and 1 4 butanediol dimethacrylate as the crosslinker . Composite resins of polyvinyl chloride ACL PVC and ACLN PVC were prepared by suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride in a 20L high pressure reactor by adding ACL and ACLN as modifiers . The inner pressure of the reactor and initiator concentration as a function of reaction time during suspension polymerization were studied . Morphology of resin particles processing properties thermal stability and mechanical properties of ACL PVC and ACLN PVC products were investigated . A commercial PVC product named PVC SG5 was used as the control sample for comparison . It was found that compared with typical PVC SG5 preparation ACL PVC fabrication took less time while initiator concentrations needed to be increased to 2400ppm in ACLN PVC preparation in order to complete the polymerization within the same time . Reactor scaling occurred during ACL PVC preparation but could be avoided in ACLN PVC preparation owing to the hydrophilicity of ACLN . The morphology of ACL PVC and ACLN PVC particles was smooth microspheres and mosaic particle shapes respectively the diameter of which were all smaller than PVC SG5 particles . The covalent bonding existing in ACL PVC and ACLN PVC and ionic bond formation of quaternary ammonium in ACLN PVC composite resins between tertiary amine groups in ACLN and chlorine atoms in PVC contributed to the dramatic increase in thermal stability . ACLN PVC exhibited the shortest plasticizing time and the longest elongation at break followed by ACL PVC . The toughness of both ACL PVC and ACLN PVC were greatly enhanced without affecting the tensile strength and softening temperature of the resin . Thus three issues namely low thermal stability low toughness and reactor scaling during polymerization of PVC have been comprehensively solved by introducing ACLN to PVC through a one pot method .

@highlight Polyacrylate latex with tertiary amine groups ACLN was used to modify PVC in situ.
@highlight Impact strength of PVC was strengthened by ACLN dramatically.
@highlight Thermal stability of ACLN PVC was much higher than that of PVC.
@highlight The introduction of ACLN reduced reactor scaling during suspension polymerization.
@highlight Three issues have been comprehensively solved through a one pot method.
