 Lithium ion batteries have been developing intensively and earn an unprecedented reputation yet advanced performance and safety issue still require considerable investigation . Separator is vital to comprehensive properties of batteries where the mechanical properties are key to breaking through of new type separator . Unfortunately electrolyte submersion has caused damage to strength of cellulose separator . Whereupon in this work cellulose separator is optimized by introducing lignin particles to promote electrolyte immersed mechanical strength . Experiments are conducted concerning surface morphology contact angle porosity electrolyte uptake mechanical properties and electrochemical performance . Molecular simulation is implemented to explore the mechanism of tensile behavior of cellulose and lignin subjected to electrolyte solvents . Experimental results confirm positive effect of lignin addition in improving mechanical properties and simultaneously maintaining impressive electrochemical performance of the cellulose lignin composites separators . Besides lignin addition amount of 2.5 and 5 is recommended to achieve promising overall properties . Molecular simulation has successfully unveiled that weakening of cellulose separator submerged in electrolyte is resulted by the deformed cellulose amorphous region and the promoting effect of adding lignin is contributed from the new hydrogen bonds generated between cellulose and lignin molecules . Hopefully this work provides novel insight on preparing remarkable separator and mechanism of materials behavior .

@highlight Lignin is utilized and verified to improve electrolyte immersed mechanical properties of cellulose separator.
@highlight Introduction of lignin causes no harm to electrochemical performance of cellulose lignin separators.
@highlight Addition amount of 2.5 and 5 lignin is suggested for superior comprehensive properties.
@highlight Molecular simulation is conducted and successfully unveils mechanism of cellulose and lignin s tensile behavior.
