 Achieving production quality is a key issue faced in injection molding . Before mass production ensuring good production quality is one of the crucial factors in injection molding . To achieve good quality CAE technology is beneficial to assist us either to make the process window approach or to integrate with optimization strategies to improve the quality . However there are still some questions or challenges existed . For example for general injection molding the difference between CAE simulation prediction and real experimental observation is very often encountered . But its mechanism of this difference is not fully understood yet . When design of experiments procedure is performed using CAE simulation the optimal parameters obtained from CAE prediction are expected to be forwarded into the real molding trial . However there is no guarantee to get results with good accuracy based on those optimal parameters . In this study we have proposed a feasible methodology to uncover the difference and its internal mechanism between CAE simulation prediction and real experimental observation . It also includes the method to reduce that difference by calibrating the machine performance . Specifically a standard procedure to calibrate the real performance of the injection machine using CAE technology has been constructed . Moreover to realize the integration of CAE and DOE optimization strategy the quality difference between the virtual CAE DOE and the physical DOE optimization has been investigated before doing the machine calibration . The result showed that the difference between the virtual CAE DOE and the physical DOE is almost same as that of the original injection molding design . However after the machine calibration the quality difference between the virtual CAE DOE and the physical DOE optimization is reduced by 67 . It is noted that the machine calibration effect is quite significant in injection molding process development .

@highlight Proposed a feasible methodology to discover the difference between simulation prediction and experimental observation.
@highlight Constructed a feasible system to decouple the internal mechanism for the difference between simulation and experiment.
@highlight Setup a standard procedure to make the machine calibration in injection molding product development.
@highlight Constructed a procedure to estimate the
@highlight between the virtual CAE DOE and the physical DOE.
@highlight After finished the machine calibration the quality
@highlight is reduced by 67 .
