 In the present work an attempt has been made to develop bio based composites using cardanol and eugenol based benzoxazine matrices with bio silica as well as natural fibrous materials as reinforcements . The bio composites developed were studied for different applications viz . dielectric water repellent oil water separation sound absorption including corrosion resistance use . Among the bio silica reinforced benzoxazine composites 7wt bio silica reinforced cardanol composites possesses the highest value of water contact angle and the lowest value of dielectric constant than those of other bio silica reinforced composites . Further the cotton fabric was coated with cardanol and eugenol based polybenzoxazines separately whose values of water contact angles are found to be 159 and 157 with oil water separation efficiency as 96 and 95 respectively . Furthermore the cardanol based benzoxazine was separately reinforced with jute felt coir felt kapok fabric and rice husk . The corresponding sound absorption efficiency was found to increase in the following order Neat polybenzoxazine rice husk coir felt kapok fabric jute felt . Data resulted from corrosion studies it was noticed that the mild steel specimen coated with bio based benzoxazine matrices and bio silica reinforced benzoxazine composites coated specimens exhibit an excellent resistance to corrosion . Data resulted from different studies it is suggested that the cardanol and eugenol based bio composites can be considered as an effective materials for microelectronics insulation water repellent oil water separation sound absorption and corrosion resistant applications .

@highlight Bio composites derived from bio mass based benzoxazines and reinforcements were explored.
@highlight Bio silica reinforced polybenzoxazine composites were studied for insulation behavior and corrosion resistant efficiency.
@highlight Bio based benzoxazines coated cotton fabrics were studied for oil water separation behavior.
@highlight Natural fibers reinforced bio benzoxazine composites were studied for sound absorption behavior.
