 Tissue engineering uses some engineering strategies for the reconstruction and repair of the compromised tissues among which the use of biomaterials as an alternative to conventional transplants is significant . However not many research has been developed on the use of biopolymer nanostructure microanalysis and calcium phosphate composites of carbon apatite in PLA as scaffolds for tissue regeneration . In this work poly filaments with 5 and 20 carbon apatite were microanalysis to produce a 3D printing scaffold . The scaffolds were characterised by the Scanning Electron Microscope and Energy Dispersive X Ray techniques thereby making it possible to notice a good load dispersion . The microstructural analysis of the scaffolds was carried out by computerised micro tomography to determine the roughness morphological parameters of pore size distribution porosity as well as better visualisation of the distribution of particles . A computational in vitro and microanalysis tests to assess the biocompatibility viability of the PLA cHA structure with a variation of scaffold geometry to evaluate their effects on morphological physicochemical and mechanical properties were also carried out . The characterisation of Ca and P release assays were observed for longer incubation times and the dynamic condition control to simulate the stresses suffered by the biomaterial exerted by the flow of fluids was achieved . The results obtained indicated that the micrographs of the cross sections of the scaffolds showed a flatness in the loaded material when compared to the 100 0 PLA . Furthermore the apparent porosity of 5 and 20 of cHA scaffolds gave a porosity percentage of approximately 62 and 41 respectively . The reduced summit height reduced valley depth and the percentage upper and lower bearing area difference of the samples are 16.33nm 9.62nm and 75.07 respectively . The morphological characterisation surface roughness analysis and tolerance insertion gave a favourable reduced porosity result for the composite scaffolds with 5 of cHA . Hence this work will assist biomaterial industries in the development of biomaterials which have been engineered with biological systems to meet medical purposes .

@highlight To mimics biomaterial composites used for bone implant through the gradual PLA CHA biocomposite.
@highlight Investigated mechanical chemical physical properties of the biomaterial in three aggregates.
@highlight Microstructural analysis of PLA CHA scaffolds by computerized micro tomography for roughness morphological.
@highlight Assessment of the hybrid scaffolds done by surface roughness evaluation mechanical and bioactivity analysis tests.
