 Due to its low cost and high efficiency injection molding is used for the mass production of many plastic products nowadays . However when processing low viscosity plastic materials i.e . materials with an excellent fluidity an inappropriate setting of the clamping force often results in a poor appearance and dimensional accuracy of the final product . Thus operators usually take the upper limit of the clamping force as a default in setting up the machine in an attempt to improve the quality of the molded parts . However such an approach shortens the machine and mold life increases the energy consumption and leads to poor air venting . Consequently more scientific methods for determining the clamping force setting are required . To meet this demand the present study proposes a clamping force search methodology for determining the optimal clamping force setting of a hydraulic cylinder clamping injection molding machine in the processing of low viscosity plastics such as thermoplastic polyurethane and polypropylene . Based on the characteristic extracted from the sensing tie bar elongation profile under different clamping force settings a regression analysis on these data points is implemented to seek for an optimal clamping force . The experimental results show that for an injection molding machine with a hydraulic cylinder clamping mechanism the effect of the mold temperature on the clamping force is sufficiently small to be ignored which has an impact on the toggle type clamping unit . Furthermore compared to traditional methods the optimal clamping force obtained using the method proposed in the present study results in a significant improvement in the yield rate . Overall the results confirm that for low viscosity polymer resins the optimal clamping force determined using the proposed method results in a higher and more consistent quality of the molded parts than that achieved using the proper clamping force setting for ordinary viscosity resins .

@highlight Clamping force is essential to guarantee the appearance and geometric accuracy of the molded part.
@highlight Mold temperature has minor effect on clamping force with hydraulic cylinder clamping mechanism.
@highlight Flash readily occurs under slight mold separation due to low viscosity resin injection.
@highlight Optimal clamping force effectively prevents flash occurred and enhances yield rate.
@highlight The revealed method provides a versatile approach for searching optimal clamping force setting.
