 Intelligent fault detection and diagnosis as an important approach play a crucial role in ensuring the stable reliable and safe operation of rolling bearings which is one of the most important components in the rotating machinery . In real industries it is common to face that the issues of severe data imbalance and distribution difference since the number of fault data is small and the equipments frequently change the working conditions according to the production . To accurately and automatically identify the conditions of rolling bearings a normalized convolutional neural network is proposed for the diagnosis of different fault severities and orientations considering data imbalance and variable working conditions . First the batch normalization is adopted as a novel application to eliminate feature distribution difference which is the prerequisite for ensuring generalization ability under different working conditions . Then a special model structure is established and the overall performances of the proposed model are optimized by iterative update which combines the exponential moving average technology . Finally the proposed model is applied to the fault diagnosis under different data imbalance cases and working conditions . The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified based on two popular experiment dataset and the diagnosis performance is widely evaluated in different scenarios . Comparisons with other commonly used methods and related works on the same dataset demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method . The results show that the proposed method has excellent diagnosis accuracy and admirable robustness and also has sufficient stability on the data imbalance .

@highlight A stable data driven model with low structure complexity for data imbalance scenarios is designed.
@highlight A novel application of BN for eliminating distribution differences is illustrated and applied.
@highlight The proposed method focuses on the rolling bearing fault diagnosis without any signal preprocessing.
@highlight The proposed normalized CNN model can be directly employed in the different working conditions.
