 The widely applied belief rule based system has demonstrated its advantages in handling both qualitative and quantitative information . As an extension of BRB system the extended belief rule based system bridges the rule based methods and data driven methods by efficiently transforming data into extended belief rules . Many works have been done to apply EBRB system in addressing classification problems . However the problems of making use of all attributes indiscriminately and activating almost all EBRs still affect the accuracy and computational efficiency of EBRB system . In this paper a structure optimization method for EBRB system including attribute optimization and rule activation is proposed to address aforementioned problems . In the attribute optimization a weighted minimum redundancy maximum relevance method is proposed where the relevance between attributes and label as well as the redundancy among attributes are used to evaluate attributes . Afterwards the proposed attribute weight calculation method is utilized to assign attribute weights for the EBRB system . In rule activation an improved minimum centre distance rule activation method which considering the weights of attributes in distance calculation is used to activate customized EBRs for input query data . 15 benchmark classification data sets are utilized to verify the effectiveness of the proposed SO EBRB method . The results show that compared with conventional EBRB system the SO EBRB system achieves higher classification accuracy lower rule activation ratio and less response time . Additionally comparison between the proposed method and some state of art machine learning algorithms demonstrates that the SO EBRB system achieves prominent performance in addressing classification problems .

@highlight Summarize the drawbacks of conventional EBRB systems and some existing work concerning attributes processing and rule activation.
@highlight Propose an attribute optimization method to select key attributes and assign attribute weights for EBRB classification system.
@highlight Propose an improved minimum centre distance rule activation method to activate appropriate EBRs for EBRB classification system.
@highlight Experiments show SO EBRB has good performance on accuracy activation ratio response time.
