 The precise classification of community service cases is the most fundamental aspect of intelligent community service systems . However data imbalance makes it challenging to achieve the desired level of precise classification . Existing transfer learning methods use open Internet knowledge for identifying case features and mining potential feature relations . However community service cases have the characteristics such as short text length and non public content which restrict the transfer learning modes . In this paper a cross region transfer learning method is proposed to solve the classification problem of cases with small datasets in data imbalance situation while considering the perspective of regional cooperation . First an ontology modeling method is applied to standardize the case features reducing the effect of semantic ambiguity on transfer results . Secondly to improve the effectiveness of source domain classification this paper utilizes an extended marginal fisher analysis where the distance is measured by the inner product between data . Next the mapping matrix from target domain to source domain is learned through domain adaptation . Finally the method is verified based on the empirical data from Lanzhou and Beidaihe in China . Experimental results on classifiers show the proposed method helps regions to improve case classification rates significantly through knowledge complementation . The proposed approach can be followed to build case based community service systems of reasonable accuracy and limited sample sizes .

@highlight We seek to classify community service cases with small datasets in data imbalance situation.
@highlight Existing transfer learning methods have high requirements both for the length and openness of case content.
@highlight We use a cross regional transfer learning to learn the map from local weak classes to non local strong classes.
@highlight Classifiers equipped with learned maps may use few samples for training.
@highlight Both the cross region semantic ambiguity and source domain feature representation are considered for effective classification.
