 As an important multiscale geometric analysis tool the nonsubsampled contourlet transform has a strong ability in capturing anisotropy and directional features of images . This paper proposes a copula entropy multivariate Gaussian scale mixtures based nonsubsampled contourlet transform hidden Markov tree model . First we study the probability density distribution of the NSCT coefficients and observe that they exhibit a sharp peak at the zero amplitude and two heavy tails on both sides of the peak . Second we redefine the generalized neighborhood relationship of the NSCT coefficients and then analyze the joint statistical property among them . We get that the NSCT coefficients have the strongest correlation with their newly defined four neighborhood coefficients . Third we use the Gaussian copula function to model the NSCT coefficients with their four neighborhood coefficients . Based on the copula entropy value the copula entropy multivariate Gaussian scale mixtures distribution is proposed the application of copula entropy helps the contourlet a lot in localizing textures . In addition we combine these studies with the hidden Markov tree model and propose the CE NSCT HMT model . Finally the proposed model is applied to image denoising and achieve a good performance . The copula entropy is first applied to the correlation measurement of multiscale decomposition coefficients in this paper which provides a way to further extend the application of copula entropy to other image processing area .

@highlight By studying the statistical property of NSCT coefficients we redefine the generalized neighborhood relationship of them.
@highlight The copula entropy is first applied to the correlation measurement of multiscale analysis coefficients.
@highlight A novel copula entropy multivariate Gaussian scale mixtures distribution and the corresponding HMT model are proposed.
@highlight Our method provides a way to further extend the application of copula entropy to other image processing area.
