 The capability of distinguishing between small objects when manipulated with hand is essential in many fields especially in video surveillance . To date the recognition of such objects in images using Convolutional Neural Networks remains a challenge . In this paper we propose improving robustness accuracy and reliability of the detection of small objects handled similarly using binarization techniques . We propose improving their detection in videos using a two level methodology based on deep learning called Object Detection with Binary Classifiers . The first level selects the candidate regions from the input frame and the second level applies a binarization technique based on a CNN classifier with One Versus All or One Versus One . In particular we focus on the video surveillance problem of detecting weapons and objects that can be confused with a handgun or a knife when manipulated with hand . We create a database considering six objects pistol knife smartphone bill purse and card . The experimental study shows that the proposed methodology reduces the number of false positives with respect to the baseline multi class detection model .

@highlight We propose and evaluate a two level methodology called ODeBiC based on the use of deep learning to improve the detection of small objects that can be handled similarly. The first level uses a detector to select from each input frame the candidate regions with a specific confidence about the presence of each object. Then the second level analyses these proposals using a binarization technique to identify the objects with higher accuracy. ODeBiC methodology maintains a good accuracy for the detection of large objects as well.
@highlight We analyse the potential of binarization techniques such as OVA and OVO to improve the detection of small objects manipulated with hand that can be confused with a weapon. As far as we know this is the first study in analysing such potential.
@highlight We build a new dataset called Sohas weapon small objects handled similarly to a weapon dataset for the case study of six small objects that are often handled in a similar way to a weapon pistol knife smartphone bill purse and card. We used different camera and surveillance camera technologies to take the images. 10 of the images were downloaded from Internet. All these images were manually annotated for the detection task. This useful dataset will be available for other studies 
@highlight  .
