 One of the most primary issues that organizations have to deal with is incorporating massive structured data problems simultaneously . Additionally a vital division in any organization is the department of human resources which is in charge of the recruitment and personnel selection procedures . Due to the nature of the personnel assessment problems which include multiple candidates as alternatives along with various complex evaluating criteria these types of problems can be tackled by the aid of multi attribute decision making techniques . Moreover in mega structured organizations the procedure of personnel selection contains massive structures of data due to the number of potential candidates for job positions in various sub divisions and departments . Therefore the personnel selection problem in such environments can be subjected as a big data problem which should be handled prudently to save time and cost . The main objective of the current study is to extend the CLUS MCDA approach and integrate it with the BestWorst Method and a specific structure to solve multi scenario big data decision making problems . In this study to validate the practicality and reliability of the W CLUS MCDA approach multiple personnel selection and risk assessment problems have been investigated with various scenarios within several departments simultaneously . This study has also introduced the concept of multi scenario parallel decision making within the context of MADM methodology using a data driven decision making approach solving various big data problems .

@highlight A novel hybrid approach has been proposed to tackle multiple massive structured problems.
@highlight The CLUS MCDA approach has been extended based on a multi scenario structure.
@highlight The CLUS MCDA approach has been extended through being combined with the BestWorst Method.
@highlight The Parallel Decision Making PDM concept for MADM big data problems has been introduced.
@highlight A case study consisting of multiple multi scenario personnel selection problems has been analyzed.
