 A multilevel method is a scalable strategy to solve optimization problems in large bipartite networks which operates in three stages . Initially the input network is iteratively coarsened into a hierarchy of gradually smaller networks . Coarsening implies in collapsing vertices into so called super vertices which inherit properties of their originating vertices . An initial solution is obtained executing the target algorithm in the coarsest network . Finally this solution is successively projected back over the inverse sequence of coarsened networks up to the initial one yielding an approximate final solution . Despite its potential applicability the strategy faces several theoretical and practical limitations . Coarsening is usually attained following a user defined policy to match vertices pairwise . However the network reduction process is extremely slow and may yield degraded solutions due to propagation of poor matches . Additionally proper parameterization of coarsening algorithms is difficult as well as ensuring the super vertices preserve the relevant properties . We address these issues with a near linear complexity coarsening strategy based on weight constrained label propagation . Our strategy collapses groups of vertices rather than pairs yielding faster and more extensive network reduction . Moreover users may specify the desired size of the coarsest network and control super vertex weights . The applicability of our solution is illustrated in multiple scenarios namely multilevel implementation of an existing high cost community detection algorithm as a direct community detection algorithm finally network visualization in connection with force directed graph drawing algorithms . Results provide empirical evidence on the potential of our proposal to foster novel applications of the multilevel method in bipartite networks .

@highlight A near linear matching strategy based on weight constrained label propagation to address coarsening of bipartite networks.
@highlight Two coarsening strategies that yield greater network reduction factors on the order of 60 90 at each level.
@highlight A comprehensive experimental evaluation of the proposed strategy on real and synthetic bipartite networks that demonstrates its scalability and solution quality.
@highlight A discussion on the underlying applicability in the context of network visualization.
