 Knowledge Base Completion which aims at determining the missing relations between entity pairs has received increasing attention in recent years . Most existing KBC methods focus on either embedding the Knowledge Base into a specific semantic space or leveraging the joint probability of Random Walks on multi hop paths . Only a few unified models take both semantic and path related features into consideration with adequacy . In this paper we propose a novel method to explore the intrinsic relationship between the single relation and multi hop paths between paired entities . We use Hierarchical Attention Networks to select important relations in multi hop paths and encode them into low dimensional vectors . By treating relations and multi hop paths as two different input sources we use a feature extractor which is shared by two downstream components to capture shared similar information between them . By joint adversarial training we encourage our model to extract features from the multi hop paths which are representative for relation completion . We apply the trained model to several large scale KBs for relation completion . Experimental results show that our method outperforms existing path information based approaches . Since each sub module of our model can be well interpreted our model can be applied to a large number of relation learning tasks .

@highlight This paper proposes a novel adversarial method to model the relation paths between entity pair which can extract the shared information between single relation 1 hop path and multi hop paths.
@highlight This paper uses hierarchical attention networks to encode multi hop paths between entity pair which has been verified can extract valuable relations in the multi hop path.
@highlight Our model can be utilized to implement knowledge base completion which achieves state of the art experiment results.
@highlight Each sub module in our model can be interpreted well through experimental outputs.
@highlight Our model can be generalized to many similar tasks e.g. relation extraction.
