 In todays world with increased competition the service quality of Chinese commercial banks is recognized as a major factor that is responsible for enhancing competitiveness . Therefore it is necessary to evaluate and analyse the service quality of Chinese commercial banks to realize their stable development . The service quality evaluation could be recognized as a multi attribute decision making problem with multiple assessment attributes both being of a qualitative and quantitative nature . Owing to the growing complexity and high uncertainty of the financial environment the assessments of attributes can not always possibly express using a real and or type 1 fuzzy number . Additionally a heterogeneous relationship often exists among the attributes under many real decision cases . In this study we create two MADM approaches to handle decision making problems with interval type 2 fuzzy numbers and offer their application to service quality evaluations of commercial banks problems . Specifically we first define some operations on IT2FNs based on Archimedean T norms and develop a bi directional projection measure of IT2FNs . Next by combining the generalized Banzhaf index the Choquet integral and IT2FNs we propose the interval type 2 fuzzy Archimedean Choquet operator the Banzhaf IT2FAC operator and the 2 additive BIT2FAC operator . Then we establish two optimal models for deriving the weights of attributes based on a bi directional projection measure of IT2FNs and Banzhaf function . Finally we create two novel MADM methods under interval type 2 fuzzy contexts where an illustrative case concerning the service quality evaluation of Chinese commercial banks is used to explain the created MADM approaches .

@highlight Define novel operations of IT2FNs to generate general and versatile operations.
@highlight Propose some operators to reflect heterogeneous relationship among the attributes.
@highlight Construct linear programming models for optimal fuzzy measure on the attribute set.
@highlight Develop novel MADM methods for service quality evaluation problems.
