 This paper introduces a new scheme for encrypting images with a few details based on wavelet fusion. In this scheme, the image with a few details to be encrypted is fused with another image that is rich in details utilizing the Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) prior to encryption. The fusion is a pre-processing step to change the homogeneity of flat areas in the images having a few details. RC6 or chaotic Baker map encryption are then performed on the fused image. Encryption with chaotic Baker map is just a permutation algorithm that cannot perform well on flat areas of the images, because the permutation yields approximately the same intensities. So, circular shifts on pixels are performed on the fused image prior to chaotic encryption to remove flat areas or reduce the degree of homogeneity. Chaotic encryption is then performed in the wavelet domain to increase the degree of diffusion. Several metrics are used in this paper for performance evaluation of the suggested ciphering schemes like visual inspection, histogram test, encryption quality analysis, and diffusion analysis. The robustness of the suggested image ciphering schemes is tested in the presence of noise before decryption. Simulation results demonstrated that the suggested image ciphering schemes provide a secure and effective way for encrypting images with few details.

@highlight This paper introduces a new scheme for encrypting images with few details based on wavelet fusion..
@highlight The fusion is a pre-processing step to change the homogeneity of flat areas in the images having a few details. RC6 or chaotic Baker map encryption are then performed on the fused image.
@highlight Encryption with chaotic Baker map is just a permutation algorithm that cannot perform well on flat areas of the images, because the permutation yields approximately the same intensities. So, circular shifts on pixels are performed on the fused image prior to chaotic encryption to remove flat areas or reduce the degree of homogeneity.
@highlight The robustness of the suggested image ciphering schemes is tested in the presence of noise before decryption. Simulation results demonstrated that the suggested image ciphering schemes provide a secure and effective way for encrypting images with few details.
