 Illumination is one of the key components in the creation of realistic renderings of scenes containing virtual objects. In this paper, we present a set of novel algorithms and data structures for visualization, processing and rendering with real world lighting conditions captured using High Dynamic Range (HDR) video. The presented algorithms enable rapid construction of general and editable representations of the lighting environment, as well as extraction and fitting of sampled reflectance to parametric BRDF models. For efficient representation and rendering of the sampled lighting environment function, we consider an adaptive (2D/4D) data structure for storage of light field data on proxy geometry describing the scene. To demonstrate the usefulness of the algorithms, they are presented in the context of a fully integrated framework for spatially varying image based lighting. We show reconstructions of example scenes and resulting production quality renderings of virtual furniture with spatially varying real world illumination including occlusions. In this paper, we present a novel image based framework capturing and rendering with the lighting found in real world scenes. The framework is based on recent developments in HDR video capture, enabling efficient capture of the full dimensionality of the illumination in large environments exhibiting both complex spatial and angular variations. The image shows a comparison between traditional image based lighting (left), and our method (right). It is evident that the lighting complexity enabled by HDR video based scene capture increases the realism and visual interest in the resulting renderings significantly.

@highlight We present a production ready systems pipeline for image based capture and processing of real world scenes.
@highlight High dynamic range video is used for scene capture.
@highlight We show algorithms for reconstruction and modeling of the geometric and radiometric properties of the scene.
@highlight We show how our methods can be used to create highly realistic computer graphics renderings.
