 Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs) will play an important role in Smart Cities and will support the development of not only safety applications, but also car smart video surveillance services. Recent improvements in multimedia over VANETs allow drivers, passengers, and rescue teams to capture, share, and access on-road multimedia services. Vehicles can cooperate with each other to transmit live flows of traffic accidents or disasters and provide drivers, passengers, and rescue teams rich visual information about a monitored area. Since humans will watch the videos, their distribution must be done by considering the provided Quality of Experience (QoE) even in multi-hop, multi-path, and dynamic environments. This article introduces an application framework to handle this kind of services and a routing protocol, the DBD (Distributed Beaconless Dissemination), that enhances the dissemination of live video flows on multimedia highway VANETs. DBD uses a backbone-based approach to create and maintain persistent and high quality routes during the video delivery in opportunistic Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) scenarios. It also improves the performance of the IEEE 802.11p MAC layer, by solving the Spurious Forwarding (SF) problem, while increasing the packet delivery ratio and reducing the forwarding delay. Performance evaluation results show the benefits of DBD compared to existing works in forwarding videos over VANETs, where main objective and subjective QoE results are measured.

@highlight We design a framework for video (and in general high data rate applications) transmission over a VANET.
@highlight Our framework includes both application and routing layer design.
@highlight We analyze MAC layer behavior and improve its utilization by solving the Spurious Forwarding problem.
@highlight We tested our protocols on a real scenario, and considered both QoS and QoE, including MOS experiments in a real car.
@highlight We grant a high data rate in ad-hoc mode, also for long distance, through our backbone beaconless approach.
