 Background and objective Retinal blood vessel segmentation is a prominent task for the diagnosis of various retinal pathology such as hypertension, diabetes, glaucoma, etc. In this paper, a novel matched filter approach with the Gumbel probability distribution function as its kernel is introduced to improve the performance of retinal blood vessel segmentation. Methods Before applying the proposed matched filter, the input retinal images are pre-processed. During pre-processing stage principal component analysis (PCA) based gray scale conversion followed by contrast limited adaptive histogram equalization (CLAHE) are applied for better enhancement of retinal image. After that an exhaustive experiments have been conducted for selecting the appropriate value of parameters to design a new matched filter. The post-processing steps after applying the proposed matched filter include the entropy based optimal thresholding and length filtering to obtain the segmented image. Results For evaluating the performance of proposed approach, the quantitative performance measures, an average accuracy, average true positive rate (ATPR), and average false positive rate (AFPR) are calculated. The respective values of the quantitative performance measures are 0.9522, 0.7594, 0.0292 for DRIVE data set and 0.9270, 0.7939, 0.0624 for STARE data set. To justify the effectiveness of proposed approach, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is plotted and the average area under the curve (AUC) is calculated. The average AUC for DRIVE and STARE data sets are 0.9287 and 0.9140 respectively. Conclusions The obtained experimental results confirm that the proposed approach performance better with respect to other prominent Gaussian distribution function and Cauchy PDF based matched filter approaches.

@highlight A novel matched filter approach with the Gumbel PDF as its kernel is proposed.
@highlight Pre-processing includes PCA based gray-scale conversion and contrast enhancement.
@highlight Post-processing includes the entropy based optimal thresholding and length filtering.
@highlight On the basis of exhaustive experiment select the appropriate value of parameters.
