 The paper addresses the issue of non-invasive real-time prediction of hidden inner body temperature variables during therapeutic cooling or heating and proposes a solution that uses computer simulations and machine learning. The proposed approach is applied on a real-world problem in the domain of biomedicine – prediction of inner knee temperatures during therapeutic cooling (cryotherapy) after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructive surgery. A validated simulation model of the cryotherapeutic treatment is used to generate a substantial amount of diverse data from different simulation scenarios. We apply machine learning methods on the simulated data to construct a predictive model that provides a prediction for the inner temperature variable based on other system variables whose measurement is more feasible, i.e. skin temperatures. First, we perform feature ranking using the RReliefF method. Next, based on the feature ranking results, we investigate the predictive performance and time/memory efficiency of several predictive modeling methods: linear regression, regression trees, model trees, and ensembles of regression and model trees. Results have shown that using only temperatures from skin sensors as input attributes gives excellent prediction for the temperature in the knee center. Moreover, satisfying predictive accuracy is also achieved using short history of temperatures from just two skin sensors (placed anterior and posterior to the knee) as input variables. The model trees perform the best with prediction error in the same range as the accuracy of the simulated data (0.1°C). Furthermore, they satisfy the requirements for small memory size and real-time response. We successfully validate the best performing model tree with real data from in vivo temperature measurement from a patient undergoing cryotherapy after ACL reconstruction.

@highlight Non-invasive real-time prediction of inner body temperature variables during cryotherapy.
@highlight Validated simulation model of the cryotherapeutic treatment.
@highlight Machine learning methods on the simulated data to construct a predictive model.
@highlight Feature ranking with the RReliefF method.
@highlight Using only skin temperatures as input attributes gives excellent prediction.
