 Chaotic phenomena, chaos amplification and other interesting nonlinear behaviors have been observed in supply chain systems. Chaos can be defined theoretically if the dynamics under study are produced only by deterministic factors. However, deterministic settings rarely present themselves in reality. In fact, real data are typically unknown. How can the chaos theory and its related methodology be applied in the real world? When the demand is stochastic, the interpretation and distribution of the Lyapunov exponents derived from the effective inventory at different supply chain levels are not similar to those under deterministic demand settings. Are the observed dynamics of the effective inventory random, chaotic, or simply quasi-chaos? In this study, we investigate a situation whereby the chaos analysis is applied to a time series as if its underlying structure, deterministic or stochastic, is unknown. The result shows clear distinction in chaos characterization between the two categories of demand process, deterministic vs. stochastic. It also highlights the complexity of the interplay between stochastic demand processes and nonlinear dynamics. Therefore, caution should be exercised in interpreting system dynamics when applying chaos analysis to a system of unknown underlying structure. By understanding this delicate interplay, decision makers have the better chance to tackle the problem correctly or more effectively at the demand end or the supply end.

@highlight The application of the chaos theory needs careful assessment or the conclusion can be misleading.
@highlight Randomness is not chaos; quasi-chaos behavior interpreted as chaos may lead to erroneous decisions.
@highlight Stochastic demand results in more quasi-chaos phenomena than deterministic demand results in chaos.
@highlight Opposite sets of decision-making in inventory adjustments are needed under the stochastic and the deterministic settings.
@highlight Understanding delicate interplay to better tackle problem correctly/more effectively at the demand or the supply end.
