 Natural earthquake disasters are unprecedented incidents which take many lives as a consequence and cause major damages to lifeline infrastructures. Various agencies in a country are responsible for reducing such adverse impacts within specific budgets. These responsibilities range from before to after the incident, targeting one of the main phases of disaster management (mitigation, preparedness, and response). Use of OR in disaster management and coordination of its phases has been mostly ignored and highly recommended in former reviews. This paper presents a formulation to coordinate three main agencies and proposes a heuristic approach to solve the different introduced sub-problems. The results show an improvement of 7.5–24% when the agencies are coordinated. entire population of sub-region r in region l vulnerable population ratio of sub-region r in region l vulnerable population of sub-region r in region l (=P rl ·q rl The CiTy Disaster Level (death toll) improvement ratio of sub-region r in region l (between 0 and 1) budget for investment in the building renovation sector existing emergency supplies in region k inventory cost of one unit of humanitarian goods additional level of humanitarian goods level of relief supplies sent from sub-region kto sub-region rl budget for investment in the emergency response sector travel time from sub-region k to sub-region rl survival function which describes the efficiency of goods mobility full cost of retrofitting link (i, j)∈ failure probability of link (i, j)∈ retrofitting ratio of link (i, j)∈ budget for investment in the transportation sector

@highlight We model three different agencies involved in disaster management through OR.
@highlight We coordinate agencies responsible for different phases of disaster management.
@highlight Coordination indicates an average improvement of 7.5–24% in the death toll.
@highlight Through multi-agent optimization, connections between the agencies are observed.
@highlight Efficiency of relief operations is dependent on transportation network reliability.
