 In command-and-control applications, a vocal user interface (VUI) is useful for handsfree control of various devices, especially for people with a physical disability. The spoken utterances are usually restricted to a predefined list of phrases or to a restricted grammar, and the acoustic models work well for normal speech. While some state-of-the-art methods allow for user adaptation of the predefined acoustic models and lexicons, we pursue a fully adaptive VUI by learning both vocabulary and acoustics directly from interaction examples. A learning curve usually has a steep rise in the beginning and an asymptotic ceiling at the end. To limit tutoring time and to guarantee good performance in the long run, the word learning rate of the VUI should be fast and the learning curve should level off at a high accuracy. In order to deal with these performance indicators, we propose a multi-level VUI architecture and we investigate the effectiveness of alternative processing schemes. In the low-level layer, we explore the use of MIDA features (Mutual Information Discrimination Analysis) against conventional MFCC features. In the mid-level layer, we enhance the acoustic representation by means of phone posteriorgrams and clustering procedures. In the high-level layer, we use the NMF (Non-negative Matrix Factorization) procedure which has been demonstrated to be an effective approach for word learning. We evaluate and discuss the performance and the feasibility of our approach in a realistic experimental setting of the VUI-user learning context.

@highlight We design a vocal user interface (VUI) which learns keywords from user interactions.
@highlight We use weakly supervised NMF as a feasible approach for realistic VUI training.
@highlight Using discriminatory features such as phone posteriorgrams yields fast word learning.
@highlight Soft VQ with speaker-dependent trained Gaussians yields high accuracy.
@highlight Stacking both features in NMF leads to fast and accurate keyword learning.
