 Segmentation of diseased liver remains a challenging task in clinical applications due to the high inter-patient variability in liver shapes, sizes and pathologies caused by cancers or other liver diseases. In this paper, we present a multi-resolution mesh segmentation algorithm for 3D segmentation of livers, called iterative mesh transformation that deforms the mesh of a region-of-interest (ROI) in a progressive manner by iterations between mesh transformation and contour optimization. Mesh transformation deforms the 3D mesh based on the deformation transfer model that searches the optimal mesh based on the affine transformation subjected to a set of constraints of targeting vertices. Besides, contour optimization searches the optimal transversal contours of the ROI by applying the dynamic-programming algorithm to the intersection polylines of the 3D mesh on 2D transversal image planes. The initial constraint set for mesh transformation can be defined by a very small number of targeting vertices, namely landmarks, and progressively updated by adding the targeting vertices selected from the optimal transversal contours calculated in contour optimization. This iterative 3D mesh transformation constrained by 2D optimal transversal contours provides an efficient solution to a progressive approximation of the mesh of the targeting ROI. Based on this iterative mesh transformation algorithm, we developed a semi-automated scheme for segmentation of diseased livers with cancers using as little as five user-identified landmarks. The evaluation study demonstrates that this semi-automated liver segmentation scheme can achieve accurate and reliable segmentation results with significant reduction of interaction time and efforts when dealing with diseased liver cases.

@highlight An iterative mesh transformation algorithm for liver segmentation is proposed.
@highlight Multi-resolution transformation optimization controls the 3D shape of a liver mesh.
@highlight Dynamic-programming searches the 2D liver contours on CT images.
@highlight A semi-automated segmentation scheme for diseased livers is developed.
@highlight Interaction is reduced to as little as five user-identified landmarks.
