 Objective The paper addresses the problem of automatic detection of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in histopathology images. In particular, it proposes a framework to both, learn the image representation in an unsupervised way and visualize discriminative features supported by the learned model. Materials and methods This paper presents an integrated unsupervised feature learning (UFL) framework for histopathology image analysis that comprises three main stages:  local (patch) representation learning using different strategies (sparse autoencoders, reconstruct independent component analysis and topographic independent component analysis (TICA),  global (image) representation learning using a bag-of-features representation or a convolutional neural network, and  a visual interpretation layer to highlight the most discriminant regions detected by the model. The integrated unsupervised feature learning framework was exhaustively evaluated in a histopathology image dataset for BCC diagnosis. Results The experimental evaluation produced a classification performance of 98.1%, in terms of the area under receiver-operating-characteristic curve, for the proposed framework outperforming by 7% the state-of-the-art discrete cosine transform patch-based representation. Conclusions The proposed UFL-representation-based approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods for BCC detection. Thanks to its visual interpretation layer, the method is able to highlight discriminative tissue regions providing a better diagnosis support. Among the different UFL strategies tested, TICA-learned features exhibited the best performance thanks to its ability to capture low-level invariances, which are inherent to the nature of the problem.

@highlight A framework for basal cell carcinoma detection based on unsupervised feature learning.
@highlight Experimental results show an improvement when compared to state-of-the-art methods.
@highlight The framework integrates a digital staining method which improves interpretability.
@highlight Digital staining highlights regions in the image which the model relates to cancer.
