 Introduction The Allgemeines Krankenhaus Informations Management (AKIM) project was started at the Vienna General Hospital (VGH) several years ago. This led to the introduction of a new hospital information system (HIS), and the installation of the expert system platform (EXP) for the integration of Arden-Syntax-based clinical decision support systems (CDSSs). In this report we take a look at the milestones achieved and the challenges faced in the creation and modification of CDSSs, and their integration into the HIS over the last three years. Materials and methods We introduce a three-stage development method, which is followed in nearly all CDSS projects at the Medical University of Vienna and the VGH. Stage one comprises requirements engineering and system conception. Stage two focuses on the implementation and testing of the system. Finally, stage three describes the deployment and integration of the system in the VGH HIS. The HIS provides a clinical work environment for healthcare specialists using customizable graphical interfaces known as parametric medical documents. Multiple Arden Syntax servers are employed to host and execute the CDSS knowledge bases: two embedded in the EXP for production and development, and a further three in clinical routine for production, development, and quality assurance. Results Three systems are discussed; the systems serve different purposes in different clinical areas, but are all implemented with Arden Syntax. MONI-ICU is an automated surveillance system for monitoring healthcare-associated infections in the intensive care setting. TSM-CDS is a CDSS used for risk prediction in the formation of cutaneous melanoma metastases. Finally, TacroDS is a CDSS for the manipulation of dosages for tacrolimus, an immunosuppressive agent used after kidney transplantation. Problems in development and integration were related to data quality or availability, although organizational difficulties also caused delays in development and integration. Discussion and conclusion Since the inception of the AKIM project at the VGH and its ability to support standards such as Arden Syntax and integrate CDSSs into clinical routine, the clinicians’ interest in, and demand for, decision support has increased substantially. The use of Arden Syntax as a standard for CDSSs played a substantial role in the ability to rapidly create high-quality CDSS systems, whereas the ability to integrate these systems into the HIS made CDSSs more popular among physicians. Despite these successes, challenges such as lack of (consistent and high-quality) electronic data, social acceptance among healthcare personnel, and legislative issues remain. These have to be addressed effectively before CDSSs can be more widely accepted and adopted.

@highlight Introduction of a hospital information system capable of decision support lead to increased interest and demand from clinicians.
@highlight Integration of clinical decision support systems in clinical routine causes added technical and social complexity, but produces encouraging results.
@highlight CDSSs can be only truly be widely accepted and adopted if they are supported long-term, and if there is enough high-quality data electronically available.
