 An innovative intelligent diagnostic system is proposed in this study, which is primarily reflected in first heart sound (S1) and second heart sound (S2) automatic extraction, frequency feature matrix (FFM) automatic extraction, diagnostic feature and generation based on principal components analysis (PCA) and diagnostic method definition based on the classification boundary curves. Four stages corresponding to the diagnostic system implementation are summarized as follows. Stage 1 describes an envelope extraction from heart sound signals. In stage 2, heart sound segmentation points and peaks are first automatically located based on a novel method STMHT, and then S1 and S2 are automatically extracted according to the relationship between the systolic time interval and the diastolic time interval. In stage 3, in the frequency domain, a novel method is first proposed to generate the secondary envelopes SE and SE for S1 and S2, respectively, and then an STMHT -based FFM is automatically extracted from SE and SE . Finally, the PCA-based diagnostic features and are generated from the FFM . In stage 4, support vector machine (SVM)-based classification curves for the dataset consisting of and are first generated, and then, based on the classification curves, the scatter diagram diagnostic result (SDDR) and numerical diagnostic result (NDR) are defined for diagnosis of heart diseases. The proposed intelligent diagnosis system is validated by sounds from online heart sound databases and by sounds from clinical heart diseases. As a result, the classification accuracies (CA) achieved are 91.7%, 98.8%, 98.4%, 99.8%, 98.7%, 97.8%, 98.1% and 96.5% for the detection of atrial fibrillation (AF), aortic regurgitation(AR), mitral regurgitation (MR), normal sound (NM), pulmonary stenosis (PS), small ventricular septal defect (SVSD), medium ventricular septal defect (MVSD) and large ventricular septal defect (LVSD), respectively.

@highlight An innovative intelligent system is proposed for diagnosing heart diseases.
@highlight A novel procedure is proposed for automatically extracting S1 and S2.
@highlight A novel frequency feature matrix (FFM) is defined and automatically extracted.
@highlight PCA-based diagnostic features
@highlight and
@highlight are generated from the FFM.
@highlight SVM-based generated classifiers are used to diagnose heart diseases.
