 This work converts the surveillance video to a temporal domain image called temporal profile that is scrollable and scalable for quick searching of long surveillance video by human operators. Such a profile is sampled with linear pixel lines located at critical locations in the video frames. It has precise time stamp on the target passing events through those locations in the field of view, shows target shapes for identification, and facilitates the target search in long videos. In this paper, we first study the projection and shape properties of dynamic scenes in the temporal profile so as to set sampling lines. Then, we design methods to capture target motion and preserve target shapes for target recognition in the temporal profile. It also provides the uniformed resolution of large crowds passing through so that it is powerful in target counting and flow measuring. We also align multiple sampling lines to visualize the spatial information missed in a single line temporal profile. Finally, we achieve real time adaptive background removal and robust target extraction to ensure long-term surveillance. Compared to the original video or the shortened video, this temporal profile reduced data by one dimension while keeping the majority of information for further video investigation. As an intermediate indexing image, the profile image can be transmitted via network much faster than video for online video searching task by multiple operators. Because the temporal profile can abstract passing targets with efficient computation, an even more compact digest of the surveillance video can be created.

@highlight A comprehensive scheme of temporal profile of surveillance video is proposed.
@highlight It provides the sampling selection, analyzes properties of shape and motion of the temporal profile, develop the algorithms to detect dynamic targets, and measure their motion direction.
@highlight Finally, the visualization of targets with multiple temporal slices with transparency is provided.
@highlight Further, robust object detection based on background updating, and real time data transmission of is given.
@highlight A comparison of our method with other video indexing methods is also given.
