 A variety of popular molecular dynamics (MD) simulation packages were independently developed in the last decades to reach diverse scientific goals. However, such non-coordinated development of software, force fields, and analysis tools for molecular simulations gave rise to an array of software formats and arbitrary conventions for routine preparation and analysis of simulation input and output data. Different formats and/or parameter definitions are used at each stage of the modeling process despite largely contain redundant information between alternative software tools. Such Babel of languages that cannot be easily and univocally translated one into another poses one of the major technical obstacles to the preparation, translation, and comparison of molecular simulation data that users face on a daily basis. Here, we present the MDWiZ platform, a freely accessed online portal designed to aid the fast and reliable preparation and conversion of file formats that allows researchers to reproduce or generate data from MD simulations using different setups, including force fields and models with different underlying potential forms. The general structure of MDWiZ is presented, the features of version 1.0 are detailed, and an extensive validation based on GROMACS to LAMMPS conversion is presented. We believe that MDWiZ will be largely useful to the molecular dynamics community. Such fast format and force field exchange for a given system allows tailoring the chosen system to a given computer platform and/or taking advantage of a specific capabilities offered by different software engines.

@highlight The MDWiZ platform for the one-click, automated translation of molecular dynamics simulation is presented.
@highlight MDWiZ version 1.0 allows conversions from GROMACS to LAMMPS independently of the force field used and simulation set up with a 10−9
@highlight kJmol−1 internal numerical accuracy for energies.
@highlight A rigorous validation on a set of molecular systems with complementary chemical topologies is presented.
@highlight MDWiZ version 1.0 is freely accessible as a web portal.
@highlight The MDWiZ platform is being extended to other software engines and force fields to automate format conversion and aid the accurate comparison of alternative simulation protocols.
