 We propose an automated framework for predicting gestational age (GA) and neurodevelopmental maturation of a fetus based on 3D ultrasound (US) brain image appearance. Our method capitalizes on age-related sonographic image patterns in conjunction with clinical measurements to develop, for the first time, a predictive age model which improves on the GA-prediction potential of US images. The framework benefits from a manifold surface representation of the fetal head which delineates the inner skull boundary and serves as a common coordinate system based on cranial position. This allows for fast and efficient sampling of anatomically-corresponding brain regions to achieve like-for-like structural comparison of different developmental stages. We develop bespoke features which capture neurosonographic patterns in 3D images, and using a regression forest classifier, we characterize structural brain development both spatially and temporally to capture the natural variation existing in a healthy population 447 over an age range of active brain maturation (18–34weeks). On a routine clinical dataset 187 our age prediction results strongly correlate with true GA 0.98 accurate within 6.10 days , confirming the link between maturational progression and neurosonographic activity observable across gestation. Our model also outperforms current clinical methods by ±4.57 days in the third trimester—a period complicated by biological variations in the fetal population. Through feature selection, the model successfully identified the most age-discriminating anatomies over this age range as being the Sylvian fissure, cingulate, and callosal sulci.

@highlight We present a model to predict gestational age from 3D fetal brain ultrasound images.
@highlight A feature-based model characterizes spatial and temporal brain development.
@highlight We capitalize on sonographic image patterns and clinical measures to predict age.
@highlight Use of clinical measurements and neuroimage information improves age predictions.
@highlight We identify the most age-discriminating brain anatomies in early brain development.
