 This paper makes a critical review of the available techniques for analysing, completing and generating influent data for WWTP modelling. The solutions found in literature are classified according to three different situations from engineering practice: 1) completing an incomplete dataset about the quantity and quality of the influent wastewater; 2) translating the common quality measurements (COD, TSS, TKN, etc.) into the ASM family components (fractionation problem); 3) characterising the uncertainty in the quality and quantity of the influent wastewater. In the first case (Situation 1), generators based on Fourier models are very useful to describe the daily and weekly wastewater patterns. Another specially promising solution is related to the construction of phenomenological models that provide wastewater influent profiles in accordance with data about the catchment properties (number of inhabitant equivalents, sewer network, type of industries, rainfall and temperature profiles, etc.). This option has the advantage that using hypothetical catchment characteristics (other climate, sewer network, etc.) the modeller is able to extrapolate and generate influent data for WWTPs in other scenarios. With a much lower modelling effort, the generators based on the use of databases can provide realistic influent profiles based on the patterns observed. With regard to the influent characterisation (Situation 2), the WWTP modelling protocols summarise well established methodologies to translate the common measurements (COD, TSS, TKN, etc.) into ASM family components. Finally, some statistical models based on autoregressive functions are suitable to represent the uncertainty involved in influent data profiles (Situation 3). However, more fundamental research should be carried out to model the uncertainty involved in the underlying mechanisms related to the wastewater generation (rainfall profiles, household and industries pollutant discharges, assumed daily and weekly patterns, etc.).

@highlight The literature provides a wide range of solutions for WWTP influent data generation.
@highlight The challenge consists of selecting the most suitable solution for each situation.
@highlight QRAs requires of generating influent data under hypothetical uncertain conditions.
@highlight The phenomenological modelling integrates knowledge about the generating mechanisms.
@highlight More detailed descriptions of the components in the catchment area are required.
