 The emergence of the cloud computing paradigm has greatly enabled innovative service models, such as Platform as a Service (PaaS), and distributed computing frameworks, such as MapReduce. However, most existing cloud systems fail to distinguish users with different preferences, or jobs of different natures. Consequently, they are unable to provide service differentiation, leading to inefficient allocations of cloud resources. Moreover, contentions on the resources exacerbate this inefficiency, when prioritizing crucial jobs is necessary, but impossible. Motivated by this, we propose Abacus, a generic resource management framework addressing this problem. Abacus interacts with users through an auction mechanism, which allows users to specify their priorities using budgets, and job characteristics via utility functions. Based on this information, Abacus computes the optimal allocation and scheduling of resources. Meanwhile, the auction mechanism in Abacus possesses important properties including incentive compatibility (i.e., the users’ best strategy is to simply bid their true budgets and job utilities) and monotonicity (i.e., users are motivated to increase their budgets in order to receive better services). In addition, when the user is unclear about her utility function, Abacus automatically learns this function based on statistics of her previous jobs. Extensive experiments, running Hadoop on a private cluster and Amazon EC2, demonstrate the high performance and other desirable properties of Abacus.

@highlight We present a new study on service differentiation techniques for general cloud system. Our solution potentially opens new business models for cloud systems in the future, and enables ordinary users to exploit the benefits of clouds.
@highlight We propose Abacus an auction based approach to cloud system resource allocation and scheduling, with enticing features such as incentive-compatibility, system stability and efficiency.
@highlight We simplify the auction procedure by allowing the users to skip the utility function when the user is unsure or unaware of the exact utility model of his own repeated jobs.
@highlight We implement Abacus by modifying the scheduling algorithm in Hadoop, and test it on a large-scale cloud platform. Our experimental results verify the truthfulness of our auction-based mechanism, system efficiency, as well as the accuracy of our utility prediction algorithm.
