 Reptin functions in a wide range of biological processes including chromatin remodelling, nucleolar organization and transcriptional regulation of WNT signalling. As β-catenin dependent transcriptional repression and activation events involve binding of Reptin and histone deacetylase 1 to APPL endocytic proteins, this complex has become an important target to identify molecules governing endocytic processes and WNT signalling. Here, we describe the structural basis of APPL binding to Reptin to explore their mode of binding in context with APPL1/APPL2 dimerization. There is an evidence that both PH and BAR domains of APPL proteins exhibit alternately conserved regions involved in hetero-dimerization process and our in-silico data also corroborate this fact. Moreover, APPL2PH domain binds to the BAR domain region encompassing a nuclear localization signal. We conclude that APPLPH binding to BAR domain and Reptin is mutually exclusive which regulates the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of Reptin. Furthermore, Reptin is unable to bind with membrane-associated APPL proteins. These observations were further expanded by experimental approaches where we identified a novel point mutation D316N lying in the APPL1PH domain which resulted in a significantly reduced binding with Reptin. By luciferase assays, we observed that overexpression of APPL1D316N and APPL1WT stimulated β-catenin/TCF dependent transcriptional activity in a similar manner which suggested that binding of Reptin to APPL1 is not necessary for β-catenin dependent target gene expression. Overall, our data attempt to highlight a comparative role of APPL proteins in controlling β-catenin dependent transcription mechanism which may improve our understanding of gene regulation.

@highlight We study the structural basis of APPL and Reptin binding in context with APPL1/APPL2 dimerization.
@highlight We perform a detailed in silico analysis using the knowledge of APPL1/2 heterodimerization and infer that binding of APPLPH to BAR domain and Reptin is mutually exclusive which may facilitate Reptin in nucleocytoplasmic shuttling.
@highlight We report new insights into the distinctive characterization of APPL-β-catenin-Reptin-HDACs ternary complex in terms of target gene regulation and transcriptional mechanisms.
