 Space layouts are created by designers to model a building’s spaces and related physical objects. Building services designers commonly reuse space layouts created by architectural designers to develop their designs. However, reuse tends to be limited due to differences in designers’ space views. In order to address this issue of modeling multiple space views, we define a set of novel operations that can be used by designers to generate new space layouts from existing layouts. Fundamental operations include select aggregate , and decompose operations. The select operation facilitates reuse of space layouts created in building information modeling (BIM) authoring systems. Signatures and processing of these operations are defined. We use an existing schema for network-based space layouts to represent space layouts. In a network-based space layout, specific spatial relations between layout elements are explicitly modeled as a directed, weighted graph or network. Processing of certain operations involves traversal of a spatial relation network with graph algorithms to determine layout modifications. Symmetric difference and overlay operations are defined as additional operations. They are composed of union intersect , and subtract operations, which are fundamental operations. Fundamental and additional layout operations may be composed into expressions to model domain-specific space views. We have extended an existing layout modeling system with implementations of these layout operations. The system relies on geometric and solid modeling as well as graph libraries to represent layouts and process operations. The feasibility of modeling of multiple space views with layout operation expressions is shown with an example in which a security lighting layout of a floor of an existing office building is automatically generated from an architectural layout. “is adjacent to” relation layout element “is near” relation “overlaps” relation “partially bounds” relation “partially encloses” relation space boundary element space element space element contained in a whole space space element partially enclosing a whole space spatial relation element spatial relation network subspace “touches” relation whole space

@highlight Novel operations for modeling multiple space views of buildings are described.
@highlight Operations generate space layouts that model spatial relations as networks.
@highlight Signatures and processing of fundamental operations are defined and illustrated.
@highlight Processing of some fundamental operations involves network traversal.
@highlight Operations may be composed into expressions to model domain-specific space views.
