 Chronic patients must carry out a rigorous control of diverse factors in their lives. Diet, sport activity, medical analysis or blood glucose levels are some of them. This is a hard task, because some of these controls are performed very often, for instance some diabetics measure their glucose levels several times every day, or patients with chronic renal disease, a progressive loss in renal function, should strictly control their blood pressure and diet. In order to facilitate this task to both the patient and the physician, we have developed a web application for chronic diseases control which we have particularized to diabetes. This system, called glUCModel, improves the communication and interaction between patients and doctors, and eventually the quality of life of the former. Through a web application, patients can upload their personal and medical data, which are stored in a centralized database. In this way, doctors can consult this information and have a better control over patient records. glUCModel also presents three novelties in the disease management: a recommender system, an e-learning course and a module for automatic generation of glucose levels model. The recommender system uses Case Based Reasoning. It provides automatic recommendations to the patient, based on the recorded data and physician preferences, to improve their habits and knowledge about the disease. The e-learning course provides patients a space to consult information about the illness, and also to assess their own knowledge about the disease. Blood glucose levels are modeled by means of evolutionary computation, allowing to predict glucose levels using particular features of each patient. glUCModel was developed as a system where a web layer allows the access of the users from any device connected to the Internet, like desktop computers, tablets or mobile phones.

@highlight We have developed a web application for control of chronic diseases: glUCModel.
@highlight This tool improves the communication and interaction between patients and doctors.
@highlight glUCModel also includes a recommender system that uses Case Based Reasoning.
@highlight It also includes an e-learning environment, which provides patients a space to consult information about the illness.
@highlight Finally, we have integrated a method, based on evolutionary computation, that predicts the future glucose level.
