 This paper presents a novel control approach of hybrid neuro-fuzzy (HNF) for load frequency control (LFC) of four-area power system. The advantage of this controller is that it can handle the non-linearities, and at the same time it is faster than other existing controllers. The effectiveness of proposed controller in increasing the damping of local and inter area modes of oscillation is demonstrated in four area interconnected power system. Area-1 and area-2 consist of thermal reheat power plant whereas area-3 and area-4 consist of hydro power plant. Performance evaluation is carried out by using fuzzy, ANN, ANFIS and conventional PI and PID control approaches. The performances of the controllers are simulated using MATLAB/Simulink package. The result shows that intelligent HNF controller is having improved dynamic response and at the same time faster than ANN, fuzzy and conventional PI and PID controllers. subscript referring to area (i =1, 2, 3, 4) nominal system frequency inertia constant incremental load change incremental generation change steam governor time constant reheat constant reheat time constant steam turbine time constant governor speed regulation parameter frequency bias constant 2H /f 1/D feedback gain of FLC water starting time area control error power generated voltage terminal voltage angle of the voltage (V) change in angle change in power change in supply frequency speed changer position speed regulation of the governor gain of speed governor time constant of speed governor 1/B =power system gain 2H/Bf =power system time constant

@highlight A novel control approach of hybrid neuro-fuzzy for load frequency control of four area power system is presented.
@highlight This controller can handle the non-linearities at the same time it is faster than other existing controllers.
@highlight The effectiveness of proposed controller is to damps out local and inter area modes of oscillation.
@highlight Performance evaluation is carried out by using fuzzy, ANN, ANFIS and conventional PI and PID control approaches.
@highlight The intelligent HNF controller is having improved dynamic response and faster than other controllers.
