 This article explores the application of DNA computing in recyclable waste paper sorting. The primary challenge in paper recycling is to obtain raw materials with the highest purity. In recycling, waste papers are segregated according to their various grades, and these are subjected to different recycling processes. Highly sorted paper streams facilitate high quality end products, while saving on processing chemicals and energy. In the industry, different sensors are used in paper sorting systems, namely, ultrasonic, lignin, gloss, stiffness, infra-red, mid-infra red, and color sensors. Different mechanical and optical paper sorting systems have been developed based on the different sensors. However, due to inadequate throughput and some major drawbacks related to mechanical paper sorting systems, the popularity of optical paper sorting systems has increased. The automated paper sorting systems offer significant advantages over the manual systems in terms of human fatigue, throughput, speed, and accuracy. This research has two objectives:  to use a web camera as an image sensor for the vision system in lieu of different sensors; and  to develop a new DNA computing algorithm based on the theme of template matching techniques for segregating recyclable waste papers according to paper grades. Using the concepts of replication and massive parallelism operations, the DNA computing algorithm can efficiently reduce the computational time of the template matching method. This is the main strength of the DNA computing algorithm in actual inspections. The algorithm is implemented by using a silicon-based computer to verify the success rate in paper grade identification.

@highlight DNA computer based algorithm is developed and evaluated for recyclable waste paper segregation.
@highlight The concepts of replication and massive parallelism operations are used.
@highlight The matching stage consists of Copy, Extract, Detect and Merge or Union operations.
@highlight Gel electrophoresis operation is used to identify the candidate paper object grade.
@highlight Success rate are 92% for WP, 90% for ONP and 93% for OCC with template size 5×5.
