 The reliability-based design optimization (RBDO) presents to be a systematic and powerful approach for process designs under uncertainties. The traditional double-loop methods for solving RBDO problems can be computationally inefficient because the inner reliability analysis loop has to be iteratively performed for each probabilistic constraint. To solve RBDOs in an alternative and more effective way, Deb et al.  proposed recently the use of evolutionary algorithms with an incorporated fastPMA. Since the imbedded fastPMA needs the gradient calculations and the initial guesses of the most probable points (MPPs), their proposed algorithm would encounter difficulties in dealing with non-differentiable constraints and the effectiveness could be degraded significantly as the initial guesses are far from the true MPPs. In this paper, a novel population-based evolutionary algorithm, named cell evolution method, is proposed to improve the computational efficiency and effectiveness of solving the RBDO problems. By using the proposed cell evolution method, a family of test cells is generated based on the target reliability index and with these reliability test cells the determination of the MPPs for probabilistic constraints becomes a simple parallel calculation task, without the needs of gradient calculations and any initial guesses. Having determined the MPPs, a modified real-coded genetic algorithm is applied to evolve these cells into a final one that satisfies all the constraints and has the best objective function value for the RBDO. Especially, the nucleus of the final cell contains the reliable solution to the RBDO problem. Illustrative examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness and applicability of the proposed cell evolution method in solving RBDOs. Simulation results reveal that the proposed cell evolution method outperforms comparative methods in both the computational efficiency and solution accuracy, especially for multi-modal RBDO problems.

@highlight A novel and effective cell evolution method for RBDO has been proposed.
@highlight A sampling method is proposed to generate template cells with target reliability indices.
@highlight A real-coded genetic algorithm is developed to evolve the reliability test cells.
@highlight A concise parameter selection guideline is provided.
@highlight New observations and findings on the dramatic change of reliable solutions are reported.
