 This research addresses system reliability analysis using weakest t-norm based approximate intuitionistic fuzzy arithmetic operations, where failure probabilities of all components are represented by different types of intuitionistic fuzzy numbers. Due to the incomplete, imprecise, vague and conflicting information about the component of system, the present study evaluates the reliability of system in terms of membership function and non-membership function by using weakest t-norm (T ) based approximate intuitionistic fuzzy arithmetic operations on different types of intuitionistic fuzzy numbers. In general, interval arithmetic (α-cut arithmetic) operations have been used to analyze the fuzzy system reliability. In complicated systems, interval arithmetic operations may occur the accumulating phenomenon of fuzziness. In order to overcome the accumulating phenomenon of fuzziness, this research adopts approximate intuitionistic fuzzy arithmetic operations under the weakest t-norm arithmetic operations (T ) to analyze fuzzy system reliability. The approximate intuitionistic fuzzy arithmetic operations employ principle of interval arithmetic under the weakest t-norm arithmetic operations. The proposed novel fuzzy arithmetic operations may obtain fitter decision values, which have smaller fuzziness accumulating and successfully analyze the system reliability. Also weakest t-norm arithmetic operations provide more exact fuzzy results and effectively reduce fuzzy spreads (fuzzy intervals). Using proposed approach, fuzzy reliability of series system and parallel system are also constructed. For numerical verification of proposed approach, a malfunction of printed circuit board assembly (PCBA) is presented as a numerical example. The result of the proposed method is compared with the listing approaches of reliability analysis methods.

@highlight Weakest t-norm (T
@highlight ) based approximate intuitionistic fuzzy arithmetic operations on different types of intuitionistic fuzzy numbers to evaluate fault interval and reliability interval.
@highlight The proposed novel fuzzy arithmetic operations may obtain fitter decision values, which have smaller fuzziness accumulating and successfully analyze the system reliability.
@highlight Also weakest t-norm arithmetic operations provide more exact fuzzy results and effectively reduce fuzzy spreads (fuzzy intervals).
@highlight Fuzzy reliability of PCBA fault has been analyzed using the proposed approach.
