 Websites offering daily deal offers have received widespread attention from the end-users. The objective of such Websites is to provide time limited discounts on goods and services in the hope of enticing more customers to purchase such goods or services. The success of daily deal Websites has given rise to meta-level daily deal aggregator services that collect daily deal information from across the Web. Due to some of the unique characteristics of daily deal Websites such as high update frequency, time sensitivity, and lack of coherent information representation, many deal aggregators rely on human intervention to identify and extract deal information. In this paper, we propose an approach where daily deal information is identified, classified and properly segmented and localized. Our approach is based on a semi-supervised method that uses sentence-level features of daily deal information on a given Web page. Our work offers (i) a set of computationally inexpensive discriminative features that are able to effectively distinguish Web pages that contain daily deal information; (ii) the construction and systematic evaluation of machine learning techniques based on these features to automatically classify daily deal Web pages; and (iii) the development of an accurate segmentation algorithm that is able to localize and extract individual deals from within a complex Web page. We have extensively evaluated our approach from different perspectives, the results of which show notable performance.

@highlight The identification of effective and computationally inexpensive set of features that are able to discriminate between Web pages that consist of daily deal information and those that do not.
@highlight The construction and systematic comparison of different learning machines based on the identified features that can efficiently classify pages as containing daily deal information with emphasis on both recall and precision.
@highlight The development of a segmentation algorithm capable of determining the number of daily deals present on a given Web page, and accurately localizing those segments of the page that consist of information about one particular deal.
