 The facts show that multi-instance multi-label (MIML) learning plays a pivotal role in Artificial Intelligence studies. Evidently, the MIML learning introduces a framework in which data is described by a bag of instances associated with a set of labels. In this framework, the modeling of the connection is the challenging problem for MIML. The RBF neural network can explain the complex relations between the instances and labels in the MIMLRBF. The parameters estimation of the RBF network is a difficult task. In this paper, the computational convergence and the modeling accuracy of the RBF network has been improved. The present study aimed to investigate the impact of a novel hybrid algorithm consisting of Gases Brownian Motion optimization (GBMO) algorithm and the gradient based fast converging parameter estimation method on multi-instance multi-label learning. In the current study, a hybrid algorithm was developed to estimate the RBF neural network parameters (the weights, widths and centers of the hidden units) simultaneously. The algorithm uses the robustness of the GBMO to search the parameter space and the efficiency of the gradient. For this purpose, two real-world MIML tasks and a Corel dataset were utilized within a two-step experimental design. In the first step, the GBMO algorithm was used to determine the widths and centers of the network nodes. In the second step, for each molecule with fixed inputs and number of hidden nodes, the parameters were optimized by a structured nonlinear parameter optimization method (SNPOM). The findings demonstrated the superior performance of the hybrid algorithmic method. Additionally, the results for training and testing the dataset revealed that the hybrid method enhances RBF network learning more efficiently in comparison with other conventional RBF approaches. The results obtain better modeling accuracy than some other algorithms.

@highlight Proposing a hybrid algorithm based on GBMO for image classification.
@highlight Introducing a new hybrid neural network for MIML problems.
@highlight Utilizing SNPOM for decreasing the train and test times.
