 This paper aims to ease group decision-making by using an integration of fuzzy AHP (analytic hierarchy process) and fuzzy TOPSIS (technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution) and its application to software selection of an electronic firm. Firstly, priority values of criteria in software selection problem have been determined by using fuzzy extension of AHP method. Fuzzy extension of AHP is suggested in this paper because of little computation time and much simpler than other fuzzy AHP procedures. Then, the result of the fuzzy TOPSIS model can be employed to define the most appropriate alternative with regard to this firm's goals in uncertain environment. Fuzzy numbers are presented in all phases in order to overcome any vagueness in decision making process. The final decision depends on the degree of importance of each decision maker so that wrong degree of importance causes the mistaken result. The researchers generally determine the degrees of importance of each decision maker according to special characteristics of each decision maker as subjectivity. In order to overcome this subjectivity in this paper, the judgments of decision makers are degraded to unique decision by using an attribute based aggregation technique. There is no study about software selection using integrated fuzzy AHP-fuzzy TOPSIS approach with group decision-making based on an attribute based aggregation technique. The results of the proposed approach and the other approaches are compared. Results indicate that our methodology allows decreasing the uncertainty and the information loss in group decision making and thus, ensures a robust solution to the firm.

@highlight This paper ensures an analytical tool to define the most convenient software.
@highlight Fuzzy AHP determines the weights for criteria of software selection problem.
@highlight Fuzzy TOPSIS defines the most appropriate alternative in uncertain environment.
@highlight It decreases the uncertainty and the information loss in group decision making.
@highlight Further study can focus on interval type 2 fuzzy set to develop a decision support system.
