 Gene association networks have become one of the most important approaches to modelling of biological processes by means of gene expression data. According to the literature, co-expression-based methods are the main approaches to identification of gene association networks because such methods can identify gene expression patterns in a dataset and can determine relations among genes. These methods usually have two fundamental drawbacks. Firstly, they are dependent on quality of the input dataset for construction of reliable models because of the sensitivity to data noise. Secondly, these methods require that the user select a threshold to determine whether a relation is biologically relevant. Due to these shortcomings, such methods may ignore some relevant information. We present a novel fuzzy approach named FyNE (Fuzzy NEtworks) for modelling of gene association networks. FyNE has two fundamental features. Firstly, it can deal with data noise using a fuzzy-set-based protocol. Secondly, the proposed approach can incorporate prior biological knowledge into the modelling phase, through a fuzzy aggregation function. These features help to gain some insights into doubtful gene relations. The performance of FyNE was tested in four different experiments. Firstly, the improvement offered by FyNE over the results of a co-expression-based method in terms of identification of gene networks was demonstrated on different datasets from different organisms. Secondly, the results produced by FyNE showed its low sensitivity to noise data in a randomness experiment. Additionally, FyNE could infer gene networks with a biological structure in a topological analysis. Finally, the validity of our proposed method was confirmed by comparing its performance with that of some representative methods for identification of gene networks

@highlight A novel fuzzy-based approach to generate gene association networks is developed.
@highlight It is able to deal with data noise by incorporating biological.
@highlight Its performance was proved by means of four thorough experiments.
@highlight The method is able is able to obtain a high number of edges with biological meaning.
