 In the current volatile and demanding business environment, managers are so eager to demonstrate that their organizations are excellent which can mainly be achieved through continuous performance improvement. The most applicable and suitable tools that by the assessment of organizations shows how successful they are in the organizational excellence path is European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) Excellence Model. This study aims at presenting a new integrated approach based on EFQM model using Fuzzy Logic, Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) technique and Operations Research (OR) model to improve the organizations’ excellence level by increasing the quality of business performance evaluation and determining of improvement projects with high priority. A case study in Yazd Regional Electricity Co. in Iran is presented to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed approach. In a way that, primarily, performance assessment by crisp method and the proposed method, Fuzzy method, is carried out. Then, strength points and the areas for improvement are identified by defining the scores for sub-criteria. Next, sub-criteria are prioritized to define the improvement projects by using AHP technique and Operations Research model. Finally, improvement projects with high priority are determined and some action plans for improvement projects are defined.

@highlight This study introduces a new methodology to practitioners and academics in which fuzzy Logic used, in the performance evaluation using the EFQM excellence model for dealing with imprecision and applying AHP & OR in the priority setting of improvement projects.
@highlight The study proposes a new integrated approach consisting of two main implications.
@highlight First one is the use of Fuzzy Logic for EFQM excellence model not only make easier the procedure of performance assessment but also the total score for the organization performance obtained will be closer to the real score.
@highlight The second is after identifying the strength points and the areas for improvement by defining the scores for sub-criteria, using AHP technique and OR model helps organizational excellence mangers for determining and implementation of performance improvement projects with high priority.
@highlight The results show that Criterion 2 and sub-criteria, 2a, 2b, 2d, are the criterion and sub-criteria having the areas for improvement with higher priority than other criteria and sub-criteria.
