 In the bacteria foraging optimization algorithm (BFAO), the chemotactic process is randomly set, imposing that the bacteria swarm together and keep a safe distance from each other. In hybrid bacteria foraging optimization algorithm and particle swarm optimization (hBFOA–PSO) algorithm the principle of swarming is introduced in the framework of BFAO. The hBFOA–PSO algorithm is based on the adjustment of each bacterium position according to the neighborhood environment. In this paper, the effectiveness of the hBFOA–PSO algorithm has been tested for automatic generation control (AGC) of an interconnected power system. A widely used linear model of two area non-reheat thermal system equipped with proportional-integral (PI) controller is considered initially for the design and analysis purpose. At first, a conventional integral time multiply absolute error (ITAE) based objective function is considered and the performance of hBFOA–PSO algorithm is compared with PSO, BFOA and GA. Further a modified objective function using ITAE, damping ratio of dominant eigenvalues and settling time with appropriate weight coefficients is proposed to increase the performance of the controller. Further, robustness analysis is carried out by varying the operating load condition and time constants of speed governor, turbine, tie-line power in the range of +50% to −50% as well as size and position of step load perturbation to demonstrate the robustness of the proposed hBFOA–PSO optimized PI controller. The proposed approach is also extended to a non-linear power system model by considering the effect of governor dead band non-linearity and the superiority of the proposed approach is shown by comparing the results of craziness based particle swarm optimization (CRAZYPSO) approach for the identical interconnected power system. Finally, the study is extended to a three area system considering both thermal and hydro units with different PI coefficients and comparison between ANFIS and proposed approach has been provided.

@highlight Suitable objective function selection is very important for controller design.
@highlight An objective function using ITAE, damping ratio and settling times is proposed.
@highlight The concept is applied to design an hBFOA–PSO based PI controller for AGC system.
@highlight Linear and nonlinear interconnected power system models are considered.
@highlight Simulation results show better performance than PSO, BFOA, GA, CRAZYPSO and ANFIS approaches.
