 This paper proposes a new method to derive the priority vector from fuzzy pairwise comparison matrices. Unlike several known methods, the proposed method derives crisp weights from consistent and inconsistent fuzzy comparison matrices. Therefore, the crisp weights obviate the need of additional aggregation and ranking procedures. To derive the priority vector, a Modified Fuzzy Logarithmic Least Square Model (MFLLSM) is proposed. In order to solve the MFLLSM, a framework based on genetic algorithm is proposed. In the proposed framework, a heuristic algorithm of population initialization, a heuristic algorithm for simulating fuzzy numbers and a heuristic algorithm of fitness evaluation are proposed. The solution of the prioritization problem requires finding priorities such that their ratio approximately satisfies the initial judgments. Computational results reveal the superiority of the proposed method in comparison with five well known methods of literature from the viewpoint of satisfaction of initial judgments by the obtained priority vector. It is shown by ten different examples that the deviation of the priorities ratio from initial judgments in the proposed method is less than five existing methods of literature. In addition, unlike several methods of literature, the proposed method considers fuzzy judgments represented by both triangular and trapezoidal fuzzy numbers. Furthermore, the proposed method for the first time considers judgments represented by triangular shaped fuzzy numbers and trapezoidal shaped fuzzy numbers which are discussed in the paper.

@highlight The proposed method derives crisp weights from fuzzy comparison matrices. Therefore, the crisp weights obviate the need of additional aggregation and ranking procedures.
@highlight The proposed method is superior to five well known existing methods from the viewpoint of satisfaction of initial judgments by the obtained priority vector.
@highlight The proposed method is invariant to the specific form of the fuzzy sets used to represent the judgments.
@highlight The proposed method for the first time considers judgments represented by triangular/trapezoidal shaped fuzzy number.
