 DVR is one of the custom power devices for compensating power quality indices. A self-tuning controller with a bi-objective structure is presented for controlling the DVR compensator in order to improve the THD and voltage sag indices of a sensitive load in the network. In this paper, the emotional controller which is based on emotional learning of human brain is proposed for controlling the DVR compensator. This controller has such a structure that makes it capable of considering a second objective in the control process of the system. So far, this capability of the emotional controller has not been used in any researches. The results of the paper demonstrate that compensating and controlling the voltage THD signal in the control process has caused more improvement in the voltage sag of the sensitive load. It was reported that the performance of the emotional controller depends on the selection of the values of its coefficients. Therefore, in order to better improve the proposed controller, these coefficients are tuned by an optimization algorithm. Teaching–learning-based optimization algorithm is considered as optimization algorithm to regulate these coefficients. According to simulation results, it works significantly better than classic PI controller and some intelligent controllers that have introduced in other researches already. model output Amygdala unit output orbitofrontal unit output stimulant input equivalent gain of Amygdala unit equivalent gain of orbitofrontal unit emotional signal learning rate in Amygdala unit learning rate in orbitofrontal unit weight coefficient of voltage sag error signal weight coefficient of computational model error signal weight coefficient of voltage THD error signal dynamic voltage restorer total harmonic distortion superconducting magnetic energy storage insulated gate bipolar transistor genetic algorithm chaotic accelerated particle swarm optimization

@highlight Presenting self-tuning PI controller based on human brain emotional learning to control DVR.
@highlight Suggesting a bi-objective structure for emotional controller to satisfy voltage sag and THD.
@highlight Considering sensitivity of the controller's coefficients, they are regulated by an algorithm.
@highlight TLBO algorithm is used to optimize emotional controller's parameters.
@highlight Convergence speed and final answer are great better in TLBO algorithm than PSO algorithm.
