 This paper is the second one of the two papers entitled “Weighted Superposition Attraction (WSA) Algorithm”, which is about the performance evaluation of the WSA algorithm in solving the constrained global optimization problems. For this purpose, the well-known mechanical design optimization problems, design of a tension/compression coil spring, design of a pressure vessel, design of a welded beam and design of a speed reducer, are selected as test problems. Since all these problems were formulated as constrained global optimization problems, WSA algorithm requires a constraint handling method for tackling them. For this purpose we have selected 6 formerly developed constraint handling methods for adapting into WSA algorithm and analyze the effect of the used constraint handling method on the performance of the WSA algorithm. In other words, we have the aim of producing concluding remarks over the performance and robustness of the WSA algorithm through a set of computational study in solving the constrained global optimization problems. Computational study indicates the robustness and the effectiveness of the WSA in terms of obtained results, reached level of convergence and the capability of coping with the problems of premature convergence, trapping in a local optima and stagnation. Iteration number (stopping condition) Current iteration number Number of artificial agents Number of dimensions of the problem User defined parameter User defined parameter User defined parameter Upper limit for the dimensions Lower limit for the dimensions Fitness of the current point of agent i Fitness of the target point Weight of the current point of an agent Current position vector of an agent Position vector of the target point Vector combines an agent to target point Move direction vector of an agent Signum function Step length

@highlight The Weighted Superposition Attraction (WSA) algorithm was designed so as to tackle the constrained global optimization problems.
@highlight Effects of the constraint handling methods over WSA were discovered.
@highlight The convergence capability and the robustness of WSA were proven through a set of computational study.
@highlight WSA produced better results than the best known results of mechanical design problems in literature.
