 Atrial fibrillation (AF) and atrial flutter (AFL) are the two common atrial arrhythmia encountered in the clinical practice. In order to diagnose these abnormalities the electrocardiogram (ECG) is widely used. The conventional linear time and frequency domain methods cannot decipher the hidden complexity present in these signals. The ECG is inherently a non-linear, non-stationary and non-Gaussian signal. The non-linear models can provide improved results and capture minute variations present in the time series. Higher order spectra (HOS) is a non-linear dynamical method which is highly rugged to noise. In the present study, the performances of two methods are compared: (i) 3rd order HOS cumulants and (ii) HOS bispectrum. The 3rd order cumulant and bispectrum coefficients are subjected to dimensionality reduction using independent component analysis (ICA) and classified using classification and regression tree (CART), random forest (RF), artificial neural network (ANN) and k-nearest neighbor (KNN) classifiers to select the best classifier. The ICA components of cumulant coefficients have provided the average accuracy, sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive value of 99.50%, 100%, 99.22% and 99.72% respectively using KNN classifier. Similarly, the ICA components of HOS bispectrum coefficients have yielded the average accuracy, sensitivity, specificity and PPV of 97.65%, 98.16%, 98.75% and 99.53% respectively using KNN. So, the ICA performed on the 3rd order HOS cumulants coupled with KNN classifier performed better than the HOS bispectrum method. The proposed methodology is robust and can be used in mass screening of cardiac patients.

@highlight Paper compares the classification performance of normal, AF and AFL.
@highlight HOS cumulant and bispectrum methods are compared.
@highlight ICA coupled with KNN performed better.
@highlight It provided 99.50% accuracy and 100% sensitivity.
@highlight System has potential applications in cardiovascular screening and diagnosis.
