 In this paper the experimental effect of the continuous and discontinuous twisted tapes turbulator on the inner side of the internal tube in the double heat exchangers on heat transfer the friction coefficient and thermal performance have been discussed . On discontinuous twisted tapes turbulator 9 holes with different geometries such as triangular square rectangular circular and diamond with the triangular arrangement have been created on turbulator flat surfaces . The Reynolds range is investigated at 550010000 and working fluids are on the side of the inner tube and annular space is hot and cold water respectively . Experimental results have shown that discontinuous turbulator has a better effect on heat transfer and pressure drop than continuous turbulator . As the discontinuous turbulator without a hole has an increase in heat transfer of 8.2 and a reduction of 9.8 in the pressure drop coefficient compared to the continuous turbulator . Then the effect of perforation on discontinuous twisted tapes turbulator was investigated . Experimental results show that perforated discontinuous turbulator with circular square rectangular diamond and triangular perforation with the same hydraulic diameter as for discontinuous turbulator without perforation was 20.8 15 11 8.7 5 increase in heat transfer and 27.7 22.8 17.3 12.1 5.5 decrease in the coefficient of pressure drop respectively . Therefore according to the results the best thermal performance was related to the perforated of perforated discontinuous twisted turbulator discontinuous twisted turbulator and continuously twisted turbulator were respectively .

@highlight The effect of continuous and discontinuous TPT on
@highlight is investigated.
@highlight The thermal performance factor of seven different turbulators is compared.
@highlight The effect of perforation on discontinuous twisted tapes turbulator is examined.
@highlight Discontinuous turbulator has a better effect on heat transfer and pressure drop.
@highlight The highest
@highlight was obtained for twisted turbulator with a circular perforation.
