 Twisted tapes are used in thermal performance intensification of heat exchangers . The present paper focuses on the last eleven years experimental and numerical studies of the twisted tapes that are inserted into a plain circular horizontal tube with different kind of working fluids such as air water nanofluids high viscosity oil servotherm medium oil microencapsulated phase change material slurry non Newtonian tomato puree carboxymethyl cellulose and CuO mixture lubricating oil . It aims to be a summarising and guiding source with detailed tables figures graphs and a criticization for the researchers . Correlation equations of friction and Nusselt number for plain tube and classical twisted tape inserted plain tube were summarised for laminar turbulent regimes . Equipment list was made and items were explained for experimental and numerical works . Ranges of some critical parameters were presented from the selected works . Twisted tapes were categorised according to their geometrical designs . Then performance considerations were made on them while the flow regimes were also taken into account . Finally by considering all the geometrical variation groups the relation between design and performance was tried to be figured out . Some geometrical design suggestions were given for twisted tapes .

@highlight For the experimental works alternate axis and cutting bending cutting off variations are losing their attraction but CWCCW arrangements and multiple twisted tapes variations are gaining attraction among the researchers comparing to the past years.
@highlight Multiple twisted tape works have attention grabbing TPF curves for the turbulent regime case.
@highlight For the numerical works alternate axis cutting bending cutting off and multiple twisted tapes arrangements are maintaining their interest level.
@highlight Periodic boundary condition concept is getting the attention of the researchers and becoming popular among the numerical studies for the fully developed flow case.
