 Static pressure distribution of the wall is essential to the optimal characteristics and discharge stability of the powder from products in a silo . A Geocomp Shear Trac II system was used to measure the flow properties of three different types of material with an emphasis on the determining the best results in experiments using a special test silo with conical hopper dependent on the static pressure distribution of the silo wall . Experimental results shows that with an increase in height from the outlet the pressure in a hopper gradually increases while the silo walls normal pressure in the cylinder decreases . The maximum pressure appears at the silo hopper junction . Three different material types are chosen based on their ability to have a weakening effect on horizontal pressure . With the increase in particle size the horizontal pressure in the silo junction remained constant . In the cylinder cross section the larger the particle size the higher the horizontal pressure . Meanwhile the vertical pressure distribution shows the opposite trend . With the increase in moisture content horizontal pressure increases and the silo walls normal pressure decreases . The influence of the moisture content on the vertical pressure of the cone cross section is weak . In the cylinder cross section the vertical pressure increases with the increase in moisture content . The experimental data created in this study can serve as a reference to guide the design of new silos as well as the maintenance tasks of established silos . This paper can serve as a reference on what silo parts must be reinforced under higher pressure during the unloading process .

@highlight The flow properties and the internal pressure distribution of powder in silos are investigated.
@highlight The pressure distribution in silos is nonuniform.
@highlight The effects of the material type particle size and moisture content on the pressure of silos are explored.
@highlight The relationship between flow characteristics and pressure distribution in silos is analyzed.
