 Continuous crystallization has been proposed as the downstream processing step for the purification of pharmaceutical proteins aimed at alleviating the manufacturing bottleneck caused by the limitations of chromatography based operations at high upstream production titers . Herein we reviewed the current state of research in continuous protein crystallization from which future research directions were identified . While the benefits of batch to continuous manufacturing transformation have been long established progress in continuous protein crystallization lags behind its small molecule counterpart . The reasons are because the challenging nature of protein crystallization even when performed in the batch platform and the lack of well understood proteins available for thorough study . Nevertheless successful batch to continuous transformations in both mixed suspension mixed product removal crystallizer and tubular crystallizers have been demonstrated using lysozyme or monoclonal antibody as the model protein . Compared to the batch platform the continuous platform produces comparable crystallization yield but with higher production capacity . Strategies to optimize the crystallizer s performance based on modeling and simulation results are also available . Future research should study a wider range of proteins with impurities incorporated in the raw material streams and adopt advancements in continuous crystallization of small molecule pharmaceuticals to improve the crystal quality and yield .

@highlight Progress in continuous crystallization of proteins lags behind that of small molecules.
@highlight MSMPRC and tubular crystallizer are equally capable for protein crystallization.
@highlight Crystals of good quality at yield comparable to the batch platform are produced.
@highlight Nearly all studies used high purity lysozyme as the model protein.
@highlight Modeling and simulation have been performed to complement experimental study.
@highlight Little information on crystal size is revealed other than the mean size no CSD data .
