 Aortic dissection is related to the separation of the tunica intima from the aortic wall which can cause blood to flow through the newly formed lumen thereby further damaging the torn vessel . This type of pathology is the most common catastrophic event that affects the aorta and is associated with complications such as malperfusion . In this work an idealised simplified geometric model of Type B aortic dissection is investigated experimentally using particle image velocimetry and numerically using computational fluid dynamic simulations . The flow characteristics through the true and false lumina are investigated parametrically over a range of tear sizes . Specifically four different tear sizes and size ratios are considered each representing a different dissection case or stage and the experimental and numerical results of the flow rate profiles through the two lumina in each case along with the phase averaged velocity vector maps at mid acceleration mid deceleration relaminarisation and peak systole and their corresponding velocity profiles are compared . The experimental and numerical results are in good qualitative as well as quantitative agreement . The flow characteristics found here provide insight into the importance of the re entry tear . We observe that an increase in the re entry tear size increases considerably the flow rate in the false lumen decreases significantly the wall shear stress and decreases the pressure difference between the false and the true lumen . On the contrary an increase in the entry tear increases the flow rate through the false lumen increases slightly the WSS and increases the pressure difference between the false and the true lumen . These are crucial findings that can help interpret medical diagnosis and accelerate prevention and treatment especially in high risk patients .

@highlight PIV measurements and CFD simulations of flow in a dissected aorta are performed.
@highlight The flow through the dissected aorta is investigated parametrically over a range of tears.
@highlight Good qualitative quantitative agreement between experiments and simulations is found.
@highlight Large re entry tears decrease the wall stress at the tear and pressure difference between the two lumens.
@highlight The re entry tear size has a primary role in controlling the wall shear stress.
