 This work addresses one aspect of the overparameterization problem in using artificial recurrent neural networks based dynamic models for model predictive control implementations . The manuscript presents an approach to handle situations where the training data may not be sufficiently rich and in particular for handling historical data with correlated inputs . Two approaches are proposed . The key idea in the first method is to perform principal component analysis on input space and then utilize the scores to build a PCA RNN model . Next a PCA RNN based MPC is designed to compute the optimal values of scores and subsequently determined the manipulated inputs . An alternative solution is proposed in the second approach by proposing a new constraint on squared prediction error statistic in the RNN based MPC to make prescribed inputs follow the PCA model constructed for training input data . Finally an approach is presented that allows to break the correlation in the MPC implementation while maintaining model validity . This is done by first generating richer closed loop data by implementing the SPE based MPC with slightly relaxed constraints . Then the new data is utilized to re identify the model and for use in the MPC . The efficacy of the proposed approaches to handle the problem of set point tracking is evaluated using a chemical reactor example . The results are compared with a nominal MPC design and the superior performance under the proposed formulations demonstrated .

@highlight A framework is presented to handle the problem of input data co linearity in developing recurrent neural network based dynamic models for model predictive control MPC .
@highlight Two specific solutions are developed one that utilizes a principle component analysis as a pre processor and another one that imposes specific constraints in the MPC implementation to handle model validity.
@highlight A re identification based technique is developed that allows new training data to be generated that enables a larger range of model validity and improved closed loop performance.
