 The studies on motion and collision of particle in rotating flow field are of great importance for chemical engineering . As the lack of work concerning the single particle the motion trajectory and collision characteristics of single particle have not been understood . In this article a coupled discrete element method and the computational fluid dynamics method model of a single particle in rotating flow field has been developed and verified by experimental data to investigate the collision characteristics of the particle . The effects of rotation speed and particle diameter on particle motion have been investigated by experiment . In The numerical simulation the particle motion process has been simulated . The effects of particle density and liquid viscosity on collision and particle collision force have been investigated . Furthermore the effects of wall and rotating fluid on particle rotation have been discussed and analyzed . The results indicate that the rotation speed of flow field and single particle diameter play significant roles in the particle motion behaviors . In the process of particle motion the particle has collided with the wall at the bottom of the Y axis of the trajectory . The selection of an appropriate particle material density and Liquid medium is beneficial for the decreasing of the number of collisions in a fully filled rotating flow field . The plastic deformation of wall will not be caused by collision force . In addition the particle rotation is significant affected by the particle wall contact while it is hardly affected by rotating fluid . They thereby can provide a technical basis for prediction and control of particle motion and maintenance of equipment in centrifugal separation and helical transportation .

@highlight The lack of work concerned the single particle in rotating flow field.
@highlight The numerical model of single particle in rotating flow field is verified by visualization experiment.
@highlight The liquid rotation speed and particle diameter play significant roles in the particle motion trajectory.
@highlight Particle material density and liquid viscosity affect the particle wall collisions.
@highlight The particle rotation is influenced by particle wall contact.
