 Nature inspired chemical engineering is promising many benefits in terms of energy consumption resilience and efficiency etc . But it struggles to emerge as a leading discipline chiefly because of the misconception that mimicking Nature is sufficient . It is not since goals and constrained context are different . Hence revealing context and understanding the mechanisms of nature inspiration should be encouraged . In this contribution we revisit the classification of three published mechanisms underlying nature inspired engineering namely hierarchical transport network force balancing and dynamic self organization by setting them in a broader framework supported by nonequilibrium thermodynamics the constructal law and nonlinear control concepts . While the three mechanisms mapping is not complete the NET and CL joint framework opens also new perspectives . This novel perspective goes over classical chemical engineering where equilibrium based assumptions or linear transport phenomena and control are the ruling mechanisms in process unit design and operation . At small scale level NICE processes should sometimes consider advanced thermodynamic concepts to account for fluctuations and boundary effects on local properties . At the process unit level one should exploit out of equilibrium situations with thermodynamic coupling under various dynamical states be it a stationary state or a self organized state . Then nonlinear phenomena possibly provoked by operating larger driving force to achieve greater dissipative flows might occur controllable by using nonlinear control theory . At the plant level the virtual factory approach relying on servitization and modular equipment proposes a framework for knowledge and information management that could lead to resilient and agile chemical plants especially biorefineries .

@highlight We analyze mechanisms underlying nature inspired chemical engineering processes.
@highlight We use nonequilibrium thermodynamics constructal law and nonlinear control theory.
@highlight We discuss systems where local equilibrium hypothesis is invalid.
@highlight We discuss self organized virtual modular factory.
@highlight We discuss entropy production extremization under nonlinear optimal control.
