 In this research hierarchical control strategies are developed for biological wastewater treatment plants to reduce the operational expenses . The benchmark simulation model no . 1 is used as the working platform which is developed based on activated sludge model no . 1 to control dissolved oxygen in aerobic reactors and nitrate levels in anoxic reactors . Fractional PI controllers are designed at the lower level and model predictive control and a fuzzy controller are designed at higher level in order to achieve enhanced set point tracking . Initially linear state space model is developed around the operating point using prediction error method for lower level . For identification of the higher level model the lower level control loop is closed in a feedback sense with the designed controller . Based on the identified model in the higher level the controllers are designed . This paper presents two combinations of hierarchical control strategies FPI Fuzzy and FPI MPC . It is observed that FPI controller at the lower level and MPC controller at the higher level results in better plant performance with better set point tracking with reduced operational costs . It is observed that FPI Fuzzy control strategy results in better EQI of 7041.7 for storm weather condition which also resulted in 48 reduction in total nitrogen violations and FPI MPC results in better OCI of 17119.6 and this strategy resulted in nearly 38 reduction in total nitrogen violations . A significant improvement in the plant performance is observed for dry and rain weather conditions as well .

@highlight Hierarchal control strategies are designed for biological wastewater treatment plants.
@highlight Control schemes are developed for nitrate concentration in anoxic reactor and dissolved oxygen in aerobic reactor.
@highlight Ammonia concentration is considered in higher level strategy for determination of dissolved oxygen set point.
@highlight Fractional PI controllers are used at lower level and model predictive controller and fuzzy rules are developed at higher level.
@highlight Reduced operational costs are achieved with the developed control strategies.
