 In this study a computational fluid dynamics model of a sieve plate scrubber was built to predict its particle removal efficiency and predict the U shaped curve of the particle removal efficiency as particles became smaller . Due to the complexity of particle tracking it takes considerable time to simulate the model by using a three dimensional structure which is not conducive to finding the appropriate setting of particle forces . Instead we presented a dimension reduction method to estimate the particle force setting by using a two dimensional structure . The rationality of the dimension reduction method was validated by the consistency in froth density for both 2D and 3D models at various air inlet velocities . Furthermore the result of the particle forces setting showed that besides the drag force other forces such as the lift force pressure gradient force gravity force and virtual mass force should be employed in the CFD model to predict the particle removal efficiency of the sieve plate scrubber . The prediction results of the 2D model remarkably matches the particle removal efficiency results of experimental data from the literature for various gas velocities and particle sizes . In addition the model predicts the U shaped curve of the particle removal efficiency for the particle diameter range from 0.1 to 1.0 m. Furthermore a 3D model with the setting of the particle forces as in the 2D model was used to validate the consistency between the 2D and 3D models . The result showed that the particle removal efficiency of the 3D model was considerably close to the prediction results of the 2D model .

@highlight A 2D CFD model of a sieve plate scrubber was implemented via dimension reduction.
@highlight The various combinations of forces acting on particles were investigated.
@highlight The accuracy of 2D model was validated using various operating conditions.
@highlight The model predicted behaviors in a wider range of particle size than correlations do.
@highlight The results predicted using the 2D model were then verified via 3D simulation.
