 Numerous studies have demonstrated the benefit of economic model predictive control applied to building heating ventilation and air conditioning systems . However the construction and training of predictive models for building HVAC systems are widely recognized as a key technological barrier preventing large scale adoption of EMPC for buildings . In this work an encoderdecoder long short term memory based EMPC framework is developed . The key advantage of the approach is that a model may be automatically generated from a list of inputs and outputs . From the definition of inputs and outputs the constructed model may be trained and automatically embedded into the EMPC framework for real time estimation and control . The overall end to end EMPC framework from model training to on line estimation and control are described . To this end the encoderdecoder model provides a natural framework for state estimation which is required to provide an initial condition for the predictive model of EMPC . Closed loop simulations using EnergyPlus are performed to demonstrate the approach . The simulated closed loop system consists of a building zone from a multi zone building which is served by an air handling unit variable air volume HVAC system . For the HVAC example considered the trained encoderdecoder model can predict the indoor air temperature and HVAC sensible cooling rate of a building zone over a two day horizon with high accuracy . Considering a time of use electric rate structure the EMPC which manipulates the zone temperature setpoint can reduce the HVAC power consumption cost relative to keeping the zone temperature setpoint at its maximum value .

@highlight An encoderdecoder LSTM based modeling strategy is developed for use within an EMPC framework. The modeling strategy is written and interpreted using standard control engineering conventions.
@highlight The end to end EMPC framework including model construction model training and closed loop estimation and control are presented.
@highlight The EMPC framework is applied to an example building HVAC system that is simulated using EnergyPlus to demonstrate the approach.
