 Over the past few decades the shortage of water resource has prompted a shift in human concept about waste water from waste to valuable resource . Utilizing wastewater can not only mitigate water scarcity but also provide an opportunity for nutrient and energy recovery further offsetting part of the exploitation of valuable resources . When establishing resource recovery systems of wastewater the implemented technology and materials should be preferentially considered in order to achieve economically feasible and environmentally responsible solutions . The advantages of biochar in cost nutrient retention and pollutant adsorption efficiency endow its possibility for resource recovery . Thus understanding the relationship between biochar and resource recovery is essential to develop the applications of biochar in environment remediation and wastewater utilization . However to this date there is no comprehensive review that establish the relevance between biochar and recycled substance . In this review we aim to evaluate the roles of biochar in resource recovery from wastewater . Recyclable substances with the presence of biochar mainly include components water resource and energy . Viable and effective methods for different recovered targets are classified . In particular through revealing the interrelationship between biochar production methods and recovered substances we try to provide the guideline for biochar selection . The re application and value of recovered substances are also summarized comprehensively . Moreover the current problems existing limitations and promising industrial application value of biochar in resource recovery from water are also put forward . This review can create awareness about the possibility of various options for resources recovery from water with biochar and contribute to further development and demonstration in wastewater treatment .

@highlight The roles of biochar in resource recovery from water are overviewed.
@highlight Resource recovery of components water and energy using biochar are discussed.
@highlight Efficiency enhancement strategies for resource recovery by biochar are evaluated.
@highlight The value and practical re application of recovered resources are summarized.
@highlight The developments of biochar based resource recovery are proposed.
