 Coptidis rhizoma the dried rhizome of the plant Coptis is a source of potentially valuable alkaloids including berberine hydrochloride . However extraction of these compounds is challenging and existing resins for adsorption based separation and purification are based on synthetic compounds which can leach into the product . Therefore we prepared separation microspheres from a natural compound . The rosin based polymer microspheres were synthesized using ethylene glycol maleic rosinate acrylate as a cross linker and methacrylic acid as a functional monomer . The physical and chemical properties of the RBPMs were characterized by different analytical techniques . The RBPMs had a clean surface narrow particle size distribution mesoporous structure and good thermal stability . BBH was adsorbed onto the RBPMs very efficiently and the adsorption process was fitted well to the pseudo second order kinetics intra particle diffusion and Langmuir isotherm model . The thermodynamic parameters indicate that the adsorption process was spontaneous exothermic physical and involved weak chemical bonds . The comprehensive analysis of experimental results suggested that the ion exchange may drive the uptake process of BBH . Dynamic adsorption and desorption tests revealed that the dynamic adsorption capacity of BBH on RBPMs was 612.4mg g. Moreover the separation capability of RBPMs for concentrating coptidis total alkaloids was established using chromatographic column breakthrough experiments and the content of coptidis total alkaloid increases from 34.2 to over 91.0 . These results suggested that RBPMs are a very promising polymeric adsorption material for concentrating coptidis total alkaloids and purifying BBH from the coptidis rhizoma extracts .

@highlight Rosin based microspheres were prepared.
@highlight The microspheres had a uniform narrow size distribution mesopores and good thermal stability.
@highlight Berberine hydrochloride and coptidis total alkaloids were adsorbed efficiently.
@highlight Adsorption was consistent with the second order Langmuir isotherm.
@highlight The adsorption capacity for berberine hydrochloride was 612.4mg g microspheres.
