 The extensive research and interest in superhydrophobic surfaces have not yet resulted in their widespread utilization . Limitations include high cost complex fabrication techniques and poor durability . Herein we report a facile economic and scalable spray coating fabrication technique that utilizes an epoxy silica nanocomposite to create robust and durable superhydrophobic coatings . To overcome its inherent high surface energy the epoxy was modified using an amino functionalized polysiloxane . The newly developed nanocomposite coating demonstrated excellent water repellency with contact angles of 165 and sliding angles of 3 for different substrate materials such as metals wood glass and textile . Our results revealed that a nanocomposite coating with a silica concentration of 28wt provides an optimum balance between superhydrophobicity and durability . We also investigated the effect of solvent volatility on the hierarchical structure and superhydrophobicity of the coated samples which is rarely considered in the literature . It was found that a spray emulsion with lower solvent volatility results in an enhanced surface microstructure that improves water repellency . Moreover the coated samples demonstrated excellent robustness and durability against peeling abrasion corrosion and high temperature environments exposure tests . The outcome of our efforts confirms that the epoxy modification process leads to enhanced superhydrophobicity without compromising the robustness and durability of the coating . This remarkable performance offers a great potential for large scale production of superhydrophobic surfaces operating in harsh working conditions .

@highlight An epoxy silica nanocomposite was developed to fabricate durable superhydrophobic coatings.
@highlight The fabrication technique is facile economic and scalable.
@highlight An amino functionalized polysiloxane was used to modify the epoxy.
@highlight The coating is suitable for different substrate materials such as metals glass wood or fabrics.
@highlight The coating demonstrated exceptional durability against peeling abrasion corrosion and high temperature tests.
