 Development of affordable thermal energy storage has been hampered by the lack of environmentally benign and scalable phase change materials . Here we show size controlled colloidal synthesis of fatty acid lignin hybrid nanocapsules and demonstrate their applicability as PCM in dry and wet states . The one pot fabrication allowed for facile preparation of hybrid capsules with a predictable concentration of tall oil fatty acid oleic acid or lauric acid in core shell particles stabilized by softwood kraft lignin . Phase change peaks of capsules containing 40wt of lauric acid were observed in aqueous dispersion indicating a possibility to develop colloidal TES systems . In dry form the hybrid capsules prevented fragmentation of the phase change peaks during 290 heating cooling cycles while in wet state the capsules appeared stable for 25 cycles . The nanoscaled morphology of the capsules was characterized using thermoporometry differential scanning calorimetry transmission electron microscopy atomic force microscopy dynamic light scattering and small angle X ray scattering . Extraction of lauric acid from the capsules allowed for investigation of the intraparticle space previously occupied by the fatty acid . The fatty acid deficient nanocapsules were found to contain an internal volume that was 19 times as high as that of lignin nanoparticles . Approximately 20nm thick lignin shells of the capsules were found to be readily accessible to water permitting heat transfer across the capsules . The possibility to tailor the hybrid capsules by altering the chain length and saturation degree of the fatty acids opens applications that extend beyond the TES systems .

@highlight Engineering of hybrid nanocapsules hyb NCs from lignin and fatty acids.
@highlight Size controlled colloidal synthesis by aqueous co precipitation.
@highlight Characterization revealed core shell morphology at the nanoscale.
@highlight Dry and wet hyb NCs were studied as thermally responsive phase change materials.
