 Focus on the design and execution of super hydrophobic strategies the phase control methodology that is solvent volatilization and crystallization induced phase separation at low temperature is proposed to construct three dimension poly porous structures denser stereo complexed crystals protrusions and bi continuous SCs fibrillary networks in poly poly blends for the first time . We show that generating hierarchical structures are keys to enable the super hydrophobicity instead of traditionally adding fillers . By comparing the interfacial configurations of PLA pores with different PDLA content it is shown that numerous SCs protrusions on the skeleton of 3D pores with 30 PDLA especially for the bi continuous SCs fibrillary networks with 50 PDLA very different from the porous morphology of pure PLLA . The controllable PLA chains sharply facilitate the formation of SCs protrusions by the hydrogen bonding which give rise to the limited time to growth ordered and large sized lamellae . Of particular interests are our first establishments of developing uniform SCs protrusions on the internal 3D porous skeleton and multi scale 3D fibrillary network structure for stereo complex PLA which afford the inner hydrophobic coincidence with the surface even after processed one hour by ultrasound in water . Therefore we hypothesize that the key factor influencing super hydrophobicity of the PLLA PDLA films are 3D pores and bi continuous SCs fibrillary networks combined with the roughly crystalline surface structure resembling rugged protrusions leading to the water contact angle up to 155 . Moreover the icing resistance and thermal degradation behavior are highly obvious . This work firstly pave the way to polymer derived networks with combination of self constructed crystallization protrusions and bi continuous 3D fibrillary network structure by hydrogen bonding for elegant implementation of super hydrophobic characteristics other than the traditional addition of fillers .

@highlight We prare PLA nanoprotrusions and bi continuous networks in lower Temperature.
@highlight The apparent contact angle CA of porous PLA films can reach up to 155.
@highlight CA values are retained at 151 and 146 even being mechanically processed.
@highlight Porous PLA films have displayed excellent anti icing and tough properties.
