 Graphene modified polymer based silica aerogels are an emerging class of multifunctional material receiving a lot of attention for a wide range of applications such as sensors drug delivery and tissue engineering . The bimodal mesoporous structure of G PSAs is dictated during the gelation process and it can be tailored by optimizing material and processing parameters . In this study the main focus is to investigate the mechanism for the formation of the structure that furnished the aerogels with unique pore structures and superb mechanical properties . The dynamic structures along the fabrication process were assessed using advanced techniques such as rheometry dynamic light scattering small angle X ray scattering and pore structure analyzer . DLS and SAXS results support the notion that the gelation of polyvinyltrimethoxysilane yields a nonparticulate structure . A chemically induced spinodal decomposition phase separation was found to explain the collected data . The mass fractal dimension was found to be 1.8 confirming that the percolation theory can not be used to describe the gelation of both neat P VTMS and Graphene modified P VTMS . The findings showed that while adding GO to the formulation does not change the stoichiometric ratio of the gelation reaction it creates spatial hindrance that interferes with the reaction process delaying the gelation process . Conversely GnP provides a platform for the reaction that promotes the gelation process . However GO and GnP shows similar effects on bimodal mesoporous structure of aerogels although provides dramatically different surface areas . This dramatic difference roots in the open pore structure induced by GnP in P VTMS aerogels . The strategy of nanoplatelets exfoliation during the solgel transition by controlling pH opens a new avenue for producing G PSAs with an exceptionally high surface area up to 2100m

@highlight In dept study on the polymer orientation in the presence of graphene materials.
@highlight Engineering of bimodal mesoporous structure during sol gel transition.
@highlight The strategy of nanoplatelets exfoliation by controlling pH during gelation.
@highlight graphene platelets contribution at the polymer graphene interface during gelation.
@highlight Effect of GnP and GO on the surface area insulation and mechanical properties.
