 The microbial fuel cell is an emerging bioelectrochemical technology which can harvest energy and purify wastewater simultaneously . Microorganisms not only have been shown critical to oxidize substrates to generate electricity in the anode but have been used as the catalyst to improve the cathode performance . However the scaled up applicability of biocatalyzed cathodes still needs to be explored . This study evaluated the electrochemical and treatment performance of long term serial connection of oxygen reducing biocathode based MFCs . Results showed that biocathode based MFCs could reach stable wastewater treatment performance without influenced by serial connection . Voltage reversal shock was previously observed in bioanodes during serial connection but our analysis of cathode potential demonstrated voltage reversal would also occur in biocathodes . Furthermore our results revealed that the voltage reversal of biocathodes could be self recoverable after roughly one month of operation which is much longer than the reported duration in bioanodes . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis of the biocathode recovered from voltage reversal revealed the substantial increase of polarization resistance due to the capacitance effect . The output voltage of serially connected biocathode based MFCs could be successfully harvested through charging the capacitor in the power management system . The 16S rRNA gene high throughput sequencing of biocathode samples revealed the presence of abundant nitrifying and denitrifying bacteria and moreover the unique microbial composition in the biocathode recovered from voltage reversal with

@highlight A voltage reversal shock on the biocathode was observed during serial connection.
@highlight Self recovery of voltage reversal in the biocathode was further observed.
@highlight The increase of biofilm capacitance was found on the recovered biocathode.
@highlight populations were highly enriched on the recovered biocathode biofilm.
@highlight Serially connected biocathode MFCs could drive an environmental sensor with a PMS.
