 Refractory organic pollutants especially at low concentrations are very slowly degradable through a heterogeneous electro Fenton process . This drawback caused by limited mass transfer between in situ produced oxidizing agents and organic molecules negatively affects the overall performance of EF and thus restricts its large scale deployment . In this study we provided an innovative solution by integrating the EF process with an osmotically driven membrane technology to overcome this challenge . Osmotic dewatering was conducted to extract water continuously from the EF cell and keep the kinetics of oxidation reaction in its fast state . The hybrid process was operated in two different modes EF Forward osmosis and EF pressure retarded osmosis where the membrane active layer and underlying support faced the feed solution respectively . Rhodamine B and Reactive Red 120 were utilized as probe organic contaminants and their degradation rate total organic carbon decay mineralization current efficiency and specific energy consumption were evaluated for a single EF and hybrid EF FO and EF PRO processes . Comparing with a single EF reaction TOC decay improved by 57.92 and 70.46 using EF FO and EF PRO processes respectively . Overall MCE of hybrid processes surpassed 100 while it remained under 50 for a single EF reaction . SEC calculations showed a significant reduction in energy consumption by almost one third when the EF reaction is integrated with the FO process . To demonstrate the practicality of our hybrid process at a very low concentration of organic pollutants RhB containing solution with an initial concentration of 2ppm was subjected to EF and EF PRO processes . EF PRO system demonstrated 88.1 TOC removal which was 3 fold higher than that of a single EF process .

@highlight Electro Fenton EF process is innovatively integrated with forward osmosis FO 
@highlight EF destroys organic pollutants while FO extracts pure water.
@highlight The hybrid system showed a significant improvement in organic carbon decay 60 
@highlight Hybrid process showed 100 mineraization current effcinecy 50 for signle EF 
@highlight Energy consumption in hybrid processes reduced to one third of single EF process.
