 The presence of dyes as pollutants in wastewater sources from textile industries can cause significant health issues if they are not adequately treated . Dye adsorption to entrap contaminants in nanoparticle pores has created considerable attention in recent years due to the environmental concerns occurring as a result of spillage of dyes in water bodies . In efforts to understand adsorption capability UiO 66 metal organic frameworks were developed and examined for the separation of four pollutant dyes containing methyl red methyl orange malachite green and methylene blue which are widely used in textile industries . The adsorbent structural stability in water chloroform and dimethylformamide was studied for one year period to understand their chemical stability . The UiO 66 crystalline structure remained unchanged in water and chloroform while XRD patterns of UiO 66 aged in DMF showed only a minor change which might be due to the partially exterior framework collapse . The maximum adsorption capacities of pristine UiO 66 for anionic methyl red and methyl orange dyes were slightly higher than those of the cationic malachite green and methylene blue dyes particularly at lower pH values . The partition coefficients of pristine UiO 66 for MR MO MG and MB dyes were found to be 1.137 2.208 0.070 and 1.345mg g M respectively which indicated that pristine UiO 66 had a good affinity to MO dye . The adsorption results perfectly matched the pseudo second order kinetic model . The MR MO and MB adsorption isotherms have matched the Langmuir model while MG isotherms are in line with the Freundlich model . The distinctive features of the UiO 66 framework make it potentially applicable for the treatment of wastewater .

@highlight UiO 66 showed excellent structural stability against water chloroform and dimethylformamide.
@highlight Pristine UiO 66 and its solvent aged samples showed good selectivity for anionic dyes against cationic dyes.
@highlight UiO 66 exhibited the highest adsorption selectivity for anionic dyes after aging in water for 12months.
@highlight UiO 66 exhibited the maximum adsorption capacity for anionic methyl orange dye.
