 The main focus of this review is recent advances in the preparation of bio based nanostructures . The structures especially prepared from natural resources have recently gained an interest in researchers work . We summarize novel routes of application in medicine as drug delivery systems and in environmental protection . Additionally their important practical utility in 3D and 4D printing microfluids based synthesis or lab on a chip and organ on a chip has been emphasized . Finally we discuss possible future developments and challenges which may in the future have and influence on industrial and scientific processes . Nanostructures can be presented in various shapes including spheres boxes tubes nanorods and nanohorns . A variety of different shapes are discussed . A significant part of this review is focused on spherical structures which have gained great popularity because of their unique properties and unlimited potential for applications . In most cases they are prepared using inorganic organic compounds or hybrid materials . Recently there has been increasing interest in the fabrication of bio based nanostructures . Natural polymers including lignin chitin cellulose starch as well as peptides can serve as substrates for the production of such particles . These materials are often plant derivatives or by products of industrial processes and are cheap and environmentally friendly . Being nontoxic and biocompatible they offer possible uses in contrast imaging as sensors and as selfcleaning and anticorrosion surfaces . More of the potential application routes are also described .

@highlight Current trends in the fabrication and application of biopolymer based micro and nanostructures.
@highlight Application of advanced structures in medicine environmental protection and biotechnology.
@highlight Natural polymers including lignin chitin cellulose starch as well as collagen and zein.
@highlight Core shells hollow spheres and spherical particles from synthesis to practical utility.
@highlight Organ on a chip lab on a chip and microfluidic devices based on biopolymers.
