 Flexible wearable electronic textiles are in great demand with the rapid development of intelligent electronic clothing systems . Nonetheless developing the wearable textiles based all weather conductive fabrics with high conductivity and sensitive temperature response property remains a huge challenge . Herein an all weather high conductive fabric and fire warning sensor have been successfully fabricated on the basis of the multifunctional superamphiphobic cellulose fabric with high conductivity and excellent flame retardant property . It is worth noting that the as prepared ACF and AFWS have different surface resistances which are 1.1 sq and 1k sq respectively . In comparison with the previously reported conductive textiles the resulted ACF shows superior electrical stability even under extreme conditions such as complex water phase oil phase flame and bending . Moreover the LED array has been designed and exhibits good electrical properties by virtue of the high conductivity and favorable oil water repellency of the ACF demonstrating wide application prospects in large scale preparation of wearable electronic textiles . In addition the as prepared AFWS exhibits sensible temperature responsive electrical resistance change which can quickly respond within 3s . More importantly the mechanism of rapid reconstruction of the conductive network on the functionalized fabric surface driven by phosphorus blowing agent at high temperature have been well proposed . The current work provides a new idea to develop advanced multifunctional all weather wearable electronic device which can effectively realize real time monitoring of human health and early warning of abnormal high temperature in various harsh outdoor environments .

@highlight The multifunctional conductive ACF and AFWS were prepared by layered deposition.
@highlight The resulted ACF and AFWS possess great superamphiphobicity and flame retardancy.
@highlight The obtained ACF has a low surface resistance of 1.1 sq and stable conductivity.
@highlight The AFWS shows rapid detection response for flame and high temperature within 3s.
@highlight The smart fabric is useful for wearable electronic textile and fire warning device.
