 Layered double hydroxides and their derivatives are a family of promising photocatalysts that have been widely used in photodegradation of organic pollutants . We review the most recent advances in visible light driven photodegradation of organic pollutants using LDHs based materials with emphasis on the manipulation of their morphological compositional and electronic properties and the mechanistic understandings of the photocatalytic processes . Based on the characteristic structures of LDHs i.e . stable layered structure specific memory effect switchable property of layered composites and high surface area we overview the performance and mechanism of LDHs based catalysts for the photodegradation of common and persistent organic pollutants . First LDHs based photocatalysts were classified into five categories LDHs derived mixed metal oxides supporting LDHs intercalated LDHs modified LDHs and LDHs with unique structures and reviewed individually in terms of their synthetic methodologies and structural atomistic topological and electronic properties . Second for mechanistic understandings of the photocatalytic processes we summarize major factors that govern the performance of LDHs based photocatalysts including catalytically relevant properties at the metal LDHs heterojunctions adsorption effect acid base pairs and the presence of vacancy sites . Third depending on the photodegradation reactions the targeting organic pollutants were classified into four types azo dyes phenols persistent organic pollutants and other types of organic pollutants LDHs based photocatalysts with optimized performance for each type of molecule are summarized with mechanistic understandings . In addition we review recent trend in the application of LDHs based materials in new emerging areas including CO

@highlight LDHs are promising candidates for high efficiency photocatalytic removal of organic pollutants.
@highlight LDHs are characterized by their morphological compositional and electronic flexibilities.
@highlight Strategies in preparation of LDHs based materials with maximized catalytic efficiencies are reviewed.
@highlight Challenges remain between research and practical application of LDHs based photocatalysts.
@highlight LDHs based photocatalysts are also applied in other important fields with promising performances.
