 Strong thermally insulating and biological PLA foams derived from cost effective and environmentally friendly process are needed for saving resources and improving energy efficiency . PLAs brittle feature and poor foaming ability are currently the major challenges which strongly restrict developing high performance PLA foams . Herein a scalable cost effective and environmentally friendly route by combining in situ nanofibril reinforcement with high pressure microcellular injection molding was developed for producing high performance PLA foams . Nanofibrillar PLA PET composite was prepared by coupling twin screw compounding and melt spinning . The presence of PET nanofibrils with an average diameter of 114.8nm greatly improve PLAs crystallization viscoelasticity and melt strength thereby enhancing its foaming ability . Thus sub microcellular nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foam with an average cell size of 322.8nm was produced using HPMIM which shows dramatically enhanced mechanical properties than the pure PLA foam . Remarkably the Izod and Gardner impact strengths of the HPMIM fabricated PLA PET foam are respectively more than 7 fold and 6 fold higher than those of the PLA foam fabricated by regular microcellular injection molding . Moreover nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foams with expansion ratio varying from 3.8 fold to 26.2 fold were fabricated . Thanks to the unique nanostructured cell walls with numerous micro nano fibrils and voids these nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foams with large expansion ratios show outstanding thermally insulating properties . The 26.2 fold PLA PET composite foam exhibits a thermal conductivity of 26.8mW mK much better than that of current polymer foams . The scalable and environmentally friendly method combined with the unique foam structure opens up new perspectives for developing high performance multifunctional porous materials .

@highlight Nanofibrillar PLA PET composite was prepared by combining twin screw compounding with melt spinning.
@highlight Sub microcellular PLA PET composites foams was produced using high pressure microcellular injection molding.
@highlight Nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foam exhibits greatly improved mechanical properties than pure PLA foam.
@highlight Nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foam has unique nanostructured cell walls.
@highlight Nanofibrillar PLA PET composite foam shows outstanding thermally insulating properties.
