 Methane activation at low temperature remains a major challenge for its utilization in the field of reduction of greenhouse gases and generation of value add products while non thermal plasmas provide a promising catalyst free methane activation approach . In this work an innovative energy pooling mechanism for catalyst free methane activation at low temperature enabled by the nanosecond pulsed non thermal plasma in argon and methane gas mixture is investigated by both optical diagnostic and kinetics modelling . Importantly the evolution of the absolute density of the hydrogen atom at the ground state as a real time and in situ indicator of the methane dissociation degree is measured using the two photon absorption laser induced fluorescence method . A simple zero dimensional reaction kinetics model is built up to perform a quantitative interpretation on the density evolution of active species . Especially a good agreement is achieved between the measured hydrogen atom density and that from the kinetics model validating the reaction pathways of active species . It is demonstrated that except for the direct electron impact dissociation during the pulse on period both the charge transfer between argon ion and methane and the quenching of argon metastable species by methane contribute to a further increase of the hydrogen atom density during the pulse off period i.e . the argon ions and metastable species can function as an energy pooling for the formation of hydrogen atom and hydrocarbon radicals . The innovative mechanism proposed in this work may contribute to the catalyst free and cost effective strategies for methane utilization at low temperature .

@highlight Catalyst free approach for activating potent greenhouse gas methane.
@highlight Nanosecond pulsed plasma enables new reaction pathways at low temperature 300K .
@highlight Time resolved and in situ measurements for the first time reveal reaction kinetics.
@highlight Energetic argon species function as an energy pooling for methane activation.
