 This paper presents an innovative approach to producing energy dense carbonneutral liquid ammonia as a means for carrying energy . This approach synergistically integrates microwave reaction chemistry with novel heterogeneous catalysis that decouples dinitrogen activation from high temperature and high pressure reactions altering reaction pathways and increasing ammonia formation rate . Results presented here demonstrate that ammonia synthesis can be conducted at 280 and ambient pressure to achieve 1mmol ammonia g cat h over supported ruthenium catalyst systems utilizing microwave irradiation . It is further shown that adding promoter ions such as potassium cerium and barium significantly improves the ammonia production rate over undoped ruthenium based catalysts . This effect could be attributed to enhanced dielectric loss processes that lead to stronger microwave absorption by the catalyst . Measurement of the equilibrium constant under microwave conditions showed a higher ammonia yield than under thermal equilibrium conditions for both the iron and ruthenium based catalysts . Finally this study also illustrates the advantages of using a variable frequency microwave reactor for ambient pressure ammonia synthesis . Mechanistically investigators believed that the oscillating electric fields of the radiation can couple with adsorbed nitrogen on the surface and accelerate its dissociation . Since dinitrogen dissociation on the surface is rate limiting this effectively accelerates the reaction . Overall the study provides an in depth analysis of the parameters affecting the use of microwaves in catalyzed ammonia synthesis . This process is fundamentally different from the commercial HaberBosch process and provides an alternative method of ammonia synthesis for certain applications as it is tolerant to intermittent supplies of renewable energy therefore effectively operating at variable rates of production .

@highlight Sustainable and stable NH
@highlight production under ambient pressure and low temperature.
@highlight Conversion of stranded renewable energy to storable energy carrier.
@highlight Microwave irradiation enhances catalytic NH
@highlight synthesis.
