 Humic acid can affect the adsorption modes of CLDHs and change the form of pollutants making it a key factor when considering CLDHs for practical applications . However the complicated and uncertain structures of HA make it difficult to explore how they will influence the mechanism so using simple compounds to simulate the role of different reactive groups in HA necessary to understand how they will interact with the application of CLDHs . It was found that both CLDHs strongly adsorb phthalic acid and catechol . All hydroxyl and carboxyl compounds had a similar promoting effect on the adsorption rate and regeneration rate of Mg CLDH which were not affected by the number of functional groups the length of the aliphatic chain or the number of the aromatic ring . However their effects were more significant than that of the HA . While they could make the structure of Mg LDH stacked and incomplete just like the HA they did not damage the crystallinity . In particular catechol inhibited the regeneration of Mg CLDH to a certain degree . Since the regeneration process was different from Mg CLDH different types of hydroxyl or carboxyl compounds degraded the removal of borate by Ca CLDH but promoted the formation of ettringite to some extent especially benzoic acid and 4 phenylbutyric acid . However catechol severely inhibited the structural transformation of Ca CLDH into ettringite . Due to the strong interaction of the HA with the surface of Ca LDH the formation of ettringite was hindered which deteriorated the removal of borate . HA did change the adsorption rate and the regeneration process of CLDHs via different reactive groups and their effects on various CLDHs were different .

@highlight Seven compounds were selected to simulate the effect of HA on CLDHs adsorption.
@highlight Models promote the adsorption and regeneration of Mg CLDH but destroy the morphology.
@highlight Models inhibit the sorption of Ca CLDH but no inhibition of structural transformation.
@highlight The effect of model is different from HA the inhibition of HA is stronger.
