 Deforestation can increase malaria risk factors such as mosquito growth rates and biting rates in some settings . But deforestation affects more than mosquitoesit is associated with socio economic changes that affect malaria rates in humans . Most previous studies have found that deforestation is associated with increased malaria prevalence suggesting that in some cases forest conservation might belong in a portfolio of anti malarial interventions . However previous peer reviewed studies of deforestation and malaria were based on a small number of geographically aggregated observations mostly from the Brazilian Amazon . Here we combine 14years of high resolution satellite data on forest loss with individual level and nationally representative malaria tests for more than 60 000 rural children in 17 countries in Sub Saharan Africa where 88 of malaria cases occur . Adhering to methods that we pre specified in a pre analysis plan we used multiple regression analysis to test ex ante hypotheses derived from previous literature . Aggregated across countries we did not find either deforestation or intermediate levels of forest cover to be associated with higher malaria prevalence . In nearly all country year specific regressions we also did not find deforestation or intermediate levels of forest cover to be associated with higher malaria prevalence

@highlight Deforestation and intermediate forest cover were not associated with more malaria in 60 000 children in 17 African countries.
@highlight Our findings differ from studies in other regions perhaps because the socioeconomics of deforestation are different in Africa.
@highlight We sought to bolster the credibility of our study by preparing and adhering to a pre analysis plan.
@highlight Anti malarial efforts in Sub Saharan Africa should focus on proven interventions other than forest conservation.
@highlight Forest conservation efforts in Sub Saharan Africa should focus on benefits of forests other than malaria suppression.
