 Agroforestry is widely purported to improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers rehabilitate degraded landscapes and enhance the provisioning of ecosystem services . Yet evidence supporting these longer term impacts is limited . Using a quasi experimental impact evaluation design informed by a theory based and mixed methods framework we investigated selected intermediate and final outcomes of a nine year effort led by Vi Agroforestry a Swedish non governmental organization to promote agroforestry in large sections of Bungoma and Kakamega counties in western Kenya . We compared households belonging to 432 pre existing farmer groups operating in 60 program villages and 61 matched comparison villages . To address potential self selection bias we used program targeting as an instrument for program participation combined with the difference in differences approach to control for time invariant differences between our treatment and comparison groups . We complemented the above with semi structured interviews with a sub sample of 40 purposively selected program participants . Despite evidence of variable program exposure and agroforestry uptake we found modest yet statistically significant effects of Vi Agroforestrys program on intermediate outcomes such as agroforestry product income fuelwood access and milk yields among dairy farmers . We also found that this program modestly increased asset holdings particularly among households represented by female program participants .

@highlight Modest gains in asset accumulation identified equivalent to just under 50 per year per capita on average.
@highlight Greater income from the sale of agroforestry products in program area for some households 43 on average in last year .
@highlight Increased availability of fuelwood on farm and reduced time spent collecting firewood.
@highlight Twice as many dairy producers in the program area found using fodder shrubs with greater milk yields.
@highlight Uptake of agroforestry in general was also about twice as great in the program area but not to the degree expected.
