 The agricultural sector remains a cornerstone to Africas economic transformation and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals . However the sectors performance in terms of productivity growth has been sub optimal when compared with performances in Asia America and Europe . Technical efficiency is a major contributor to the growth in agricultural productivity . However there is limited research about the sources of technical inefficiency in agricultural production in Africa . This is critical given that Africa has problems with food security and high poverty . This study applied a parametric technique to estimate technical efficiency in Africas agricultural sector under heterogeneous technologies while separating unobserved country specific heterogeneities from transient and persistent technical efficiency . Data consisted of 49 African countries spanning from 1990 to 2016 . Assuming a homogeneous technology the estimated mean technical efficiency of 38.2 suggests that in Africa about 62 of the potential agricultural output is untapped . However considering heterogeneity in production technologies the mean estimated technical efficiency value differed between the two classes . The numbers suggest that about 59 and 69 of untapped potential agricultural output in class one and class two groups respectively . In all cases persistent technical inefficiency hinders technical efficiency an indication that government or regional agricultural policies should be long term oriented . With the evidence of conditional convergence in technical efficiency efforts to improve persistent technical efficiency can drive regional targets in food security and poverty alleviation and induce inclusive growth and sustainable development .

@highlight Decomposes technical efficiency in agricultural production into transient and persistent efficiency.
@highlight The study allowed for heterogeneous production technologies.
@highlight Technical efficiency is low but differentiated between classes.
@highlight Persistent technical inefficiency is the main driver of the low technical efficiency in Africa.
@highlight Government policies should attach more weight to long term oriented policies.
