 Womens equality and empowerment are international development priorities but are difficult to achieve . Much gender and development literature blames entrenched traditional gender roles and norms using them to explain slow progress towards gender and development goals such as girls and womens education womens participation in public decision making and womens land and property ownership . The literature often concludes that for gender and development goals to be realized traditional gender narratives must be challenged and changed . However limited research examines the full range of ways in which people who live in highly gender unequal societies actually use traditional gender narratives to negotiate issues of womens empowerment and gender equality . Drawing on qualitative data collected from three rural South Sudanese communitiescomprising interviews and focus groups with 94 research participants and over five hours of community radio contentthis study demonstrates that gender narratives considered to be traditional by the South Sudanese during a post conflict transition period do not necessarily constitute barriers to the advancement of gender and development goals . Rather the South Sudanese use traditional gender narratives in this context to both resist and support goals that the international development community prioritizes . By providing evidence that traditional gender narratives are mobilized and used by community members to support womens equality and empowerment this paper challenges and extends development scholarship that positions traditional narratives as barriers and encourages development practitioners to consider how they might critically harness rather than reject such narratives in the pursuit of gender and development goals .

@highlight Communities in rural South Sudan have two sets of narratives about women those they consider traditional and those they consider modern.
@highlight The South Sudanese use traditional gender narratives alongside modern ones to mobilize support for gender and development goals.
@highlight Girls and womens education public participation and property ownership are all supported using traditional gender narratives.
@highlight These goals are also resisted using the same traditional gender narratives.
@highlight Traditional gender narratives do not necessarily constitute barriers to the advancement of gender and development goals in the way often assumed.
