 We develop a framework to conceptualize the multiple ways forests contribute to poverty reduction and inform development interventions in forest landscapes . We identify five key strategies for reducing poverty in forest landscapes a improvements in productivity of forest land and labor b governance reform to strengthen community household and womens rights over forests and land c investments in institutions infrastructure and public services that facilitate forest based entrepreneurship d increased access to markets for timber or non timber forest products and e mechanisms that enhance and enable the flow of benefits from forest ecosystem services to the poor . We test the utility of the framework through a review of the forestry portfolio of the World Bank Group the largest public investor in forestry . Many of these projects include several but not all PRIME components . We devote particular attention to forest related investments in two contrasting countries Vietnam and Mexico to examine synergies among the pathways . Results suggest that each strategy in the PRIME framework may play an important role in alleviating poverty but pronounced impacts may require multiple pathways to be jointly pursued . The PRIME framework can guide research to address knowledge gaps on pathways to prosperity in forest landscapes serve as an easily remembered checklist for managers and nudge forest program designers in government and development organizations who are interested in poverty reduction to focus on the importance of both a comprehensive framework and synergies across different pathways .

@highlight A broad framework PRIME can help conceptualize forests contribution to poverty reduction and guide intervention design.
@highlight Pathways include strengthening
@highlight roductivity 
@highlight ights complementary
@highlight nvestments 
@highlight arket access and
@highlight cosystem services.
@highlight Framework application to the World Bank forestry portfolio suggests synergies among pathways for greater poverty impacts.
@highlight Results recommend a broad approach to poverty reduction coupled with program evaluation and standardized measurement.
