 Impact oriented accelerators a relatively new type of entrepreneur support program are proliferating as practitioners philanthropic funders and investors work to unlock the full potential of entrepreneurship led economic development . These accelerators aspire to support entrepreneurs in large part by driving investment into promising ventures that work in marginalized sectors and regions around the world . Given the opportunity costs of the human organizational and financial resources required to run accelerators it is important to determine whether they are having this intended impact . To assess the effect of acceleration on outside equity investment we analyze application and follow up data from a matched sample of 1647 entrepreneurs who applied to 77 impact oriented accelerators . Our main finding is promising . In the first follow up year accelerator program participants attract significantly more outside equity than their rejected counterparts . Further analysis suggests that this positive equity bump is not due to cherry picking obviously promising ventures during selection processes . Moreover the effect is tied to the number of accelerated months in the follow up year . Despite these promising observations we find that the equity investment effect does not extend to ventures working in emerging markets or to those with women on their founding teams . Thus the benefits of accelerators for entrepreneurship led development are not yet reaching the places and people that have the hardest time attracting capital on their own . We conclude the paper by outlining the challenges associated with extending the positive effects of acceleration into entrepreneurial domains that are most challenging from an economic development perspective .

@highlight Impact oriented accelerators represent a new type of entrepreneurial support program that is spreading around the world.
@highlight Using data from 77 accelerators we find accelerated ventures raise more outside equity investment than rejected ventures.
@highlight This positive equity bump is not due to programs picking obviously promising ventures during their selection processes.
@highlight The positive equity bump is tied to the number of accelerated months in the follow up year.
@highlight Virtually all the equity gains flow to ventures in high income countries and those started by all male founding teams.
