 Farmers vulnerability to adverse weather events which are likely to increase in frequency and magnitude due to climate change is a major impediment to a sufficient credit supply . Smallholder farmers access to credit is among other factors crucial for productivity and output growth . Index insurance could help lenders to compensate for lacking installment payments in years with severe weather conditions and thus is considered to accelerate agricultural lending . Using a unique borrower dataset provided by a Microfinance Institution in Madagascar we analyze whether remotely sensed vegetation health indices can explain the credit risk of the MFIs agricultural loan portfolio . Therefore we utilize sequential logit models and quantile regressions . More specifically we consider the remotely sensed Vegetation Condition Index Temperature Condition Index and the Vegetation Health Index as independent variables at the individual branch and the aggregated bank level . These indices are available globally and can potentially enhance the effectiveness of index insurance by reducing basis risk a major drawback of index insurance . Moreover we consider loan and socio demographic variables of the borrowers as additional independent variables . Our results show that the credit risk of the MFI is explained to a large extent by the vegetation health indices . Moreover the results from quantile regressions show that the explanatory power of the vegetation health indices increases with increasing credit risk . Thus utilizing remotely sensed vegetation health indices for index insurance designs might be particularly valuable for MFIs to hedge the credit risk of their agricultural loan portfolio . Facing lower default rates MFIs could reduce interest rates . Remotely sensed index insurance could therefore enhance access to credit contributing to sustainable development in the study region .

@highlight Agricultural lenders face the risk of delayed installment payments especially in years with severe weather conditions.
@highlight Remotely sensed vegetation health indices are negatively correlated with credit risk.
@highlight Credit risk is explained to a large extent by these vegetation health indices.
@highlight The explanatory power of the vegetation health indices increases in the upper quantiles of the distribution of credit risk.
@highlight Index insurance based on vegetation health indices is likely to be helpful for lenders and in turn to improve farmers access to credit.
