 Over the past decade two development programscash transfer and financial inclusionwere bundled in global development discourse . Despite differences in their purported objectives cash transfers are increasingly delivered via financial inclusion infrastructures and technologies . One important yet under appreciated consequence of this bundling is the possible transference of credit and debt to cash transfer recipients . In this paper I explore how the South African cash transfer program incorporated recipients into a highly coercive and monopolistic financial system predicated on proprietary technologies . The proliferation of such technologies enabled cash grants to be transformed into collateral for credit and encumbered by debts to private companies . Specialized payment technologies encouraged recipients to accept loans and ensured that they could not default making cash transfer a site of nearly risk free profit . My work is informed by over two years of ethnographic fieldwork hundreds of qualitative interviews and archival data from the South African Parliament and Constitutional Court . My study finds that while grant payment technologies promise to mitigate the contradictions between providing cash transfers for basic needs and offering profitable financial products in practice they can worsen indebtedness . By focusing on the materiality of financial inclusion technologies I demonstrate how the efficacy of cash transfer programs can be undermined when debts as well as grants are passed on to recipients .

@highlight Cash transfer programs have been bundled with financial inclusion technologies in global development discourse.
@highlight In South Africa the security of government guaranteed cash transfers transforms them into collateral for credit.
@highlight Credit linked to cash transfers can be coercive when it occurs in a monopolistic techno financial environment.
@highlight Technologies of cash transfer payment can ensure recipients cannot default on loans and all risk is born by the grantee.
