 New roads are widely seen to aid economic development . New roads have also been shown to cause deforestation suggesting development environment tradeoffs for the locations where studies have focused to date . Yet in other settings multiple mechanisms could support a different road forest relationship at least partially alleviating this tradeoff . New roads could promote reforestation by raising the relative productivity of labor in non agricultural sectors thereby reducing agricultural activity facilitating price convergence across regional forest product markets raising profits from forest management or plantations and or encouraging substitution from locally collected fuelwood to other energy sources . Indias Rural Roads Program offers an opportunity to explore these hypotheses in a large country with little previous investigation of the road forest relationship . Program rules prioritized construction by village population ranges which differentiated construction timing across villages . I exploit this with a generalized difference in differences estimation strategy having combined satellite survey and census data to create a village level countrywide panel for 20002014 . Road impacts are found to have considerable variation across economic settings within India frontier like settings saw reductions in tree cover due to new roads while less isolated settings with greater existing agricultural development saw increases in tree cover . These results inform the spatial targeting of roads for environmentally sensitive development while broadening the set of mechanisms used to explain forest transitions .

@highlight Globally roads have been shown to promote development yet are also recognized drivers of deforestation.
@highlight A nationwide Indian road building program allows for causal testing of this tradeoff across diverse settings.
@highlight Roads decreased tree cover in more remote areas and increased tree cover in less remote areas relative to baseline trends.
@highlight This suggests roads may play a role in forest transitions the pattern of forest loss and gain seen in some countries.
