 The productive use of electricity is essential for poverty reduction in newly electrified rural communities as well as for the financial sustainability of electricity suppliers . Because men and women assume different roles in the rural economy the inclusion of gender concerns in interventions to promote productive uses of energy could improve development outcomes . Using a multi methods approach this study provides new evidence about how men and women use energy in rural micro enterprises in Tanzania and which benefits they obtain from it . In our research region most businesses are owned by men and men owned enterprises use electricity more frequently and intensely than women owned enterprises . The latter dominate the productive use of cooking fuels like charcoal and firewood . Electricity use is consistently associated with better business performance but women entrepreneurs do not use it as much as men . There are multiple reasons for this gender imbalance . First women enjoy less favourable starting conditions for enterprise creation due to poor access to finance education and other resources . Furthermore women are required to balance care responsibilities with paid work and are subject to social norms that determine the acceptability of certain productive activities . Typically female activities are less profitable and less mechanised than mens . Consequently in the absence of gender interventions male entrepreneurs are more likely to benefit from the promotion of productive uses of electricity . The paper discusses several approaches to improve the gender equity of PUE interventions .

@highlight The paper provides evidence about gender differences in the productive use of energy.
@highlight The research focuses on fishing communities in Lake Victoria Tanzania.
@highlight Men and women use different types and quantities of fuel in their enterprises.
@highlight Electricity is consistently associated with better business performance.
@highlight A multi methods approach combining qualitative and quantitative research is used to gather evidence.
