 Tourism is perceived as driving economic growth for developing countries by generating employment income and government revenue . In debates over the relationship between economic growth and poverty alleviation the inclusive growth paradigm emerged in World Bank OECD and other development publications becoming a UN Sustainable Development Goal . However inclusive growth remains highly contested and specifically tourisms role in economic growth has been little discussed . This paper contributes to the debate by interrogating tourism led inclusive growth using evidence from developing economies in South East Asia a region with booming international tourism . It raises the fundamental question whether tourism led growth can be inclusive in the short to medium term drawing on evidence from fieldwork in Malaysia Vietnam Indonesia and Myanmar . Fieldwork utilised a rapid rural appraisal approach using qualitative methods mainly semi structured interviews . Although tourism can generate employment overall this can be precarious and poorly paid limiting opportunities for poverty alleviation . Tourism led growth may widen inequalities in host communities and weaken backward linkages to the local economy despite its potential for strengthening such linkages to food and non food sectors . Remoteness and transportation also weaken such linkages . Low income households and locally owned businesses are most affected by the construction of large scale tourism projects which although increasing overall tourist arrivals and expenditure can result in the loss of land business premises and livelihoods . In addition privileging large capital foreign firms and crony conglomerates is a regional trend and a major obstacle for tourism led inclusive growth policy . Ownership patterns and destination governance also play critical roles in defining a destinations direction pace of development steering it towards or away from tourism led inclusive growth . Given tourisms significance for many developing countries the paper contributes to wider debates over inclusive growth both for theorising and in its policy relevance for national development strategies and poverty alleviation .

@highlight Tourism contributes to employment overall but precarious work conditions and low pay may limit opportunities for poverty alleviation.
@highlight The opportunities for tourism led inclusive growth decrease as destinations are developed or redeveloped to maximise tourist growth and spend.
@highlight Economic linkages to local economies are weakened despite the clear potential for strengthening backward linkages in food and non food sectors.
@highlight Low income households and SME businesses are most affected by large scale tourism projects with loss of land business premises and livelihoods.
@highlight Privileging large capital foreign firms and crony conglomerates is a regional trend and a major hurdle for tourism led inclusive growth policy.
