 While there is now broad consensus that innovation is a key driver of productivity growth debates about the states role in promoting innovation remain polarised between two competing analytical and ideological paradigms . The first is neoliberalism which confines the state to correcting market failures ensuring competition and supporting the innovative force of the private sector . Drawing on the developmental state phenomenon the second calls for a strong and visionary state to drive innovation by targeting industries for investment and protecting firms until they are ready to face competition . The literature broadly falls within these camps identifying innovation as a market or state driven process . This paper challenges both arguing that there are multiple pathways to innovation many of which represent a messier middle ground . The case of Kenya which has become a hotbed for mobile money innovation since launching its pioneering M Pesa service in 2007 is used to make this argument . Neoliberal and statist accounts fail to explain this story which needs to be framed in relation to underlying power relations that span this divide . The M Pesa success has played out within a highly particularistic and patronage based political context whereby the interests of key groups within Kenyas political settlement have crystallised to shield M Pesa s parent company Safaricom whose ownership structure and strategic partnerships draw in elites from across the political spectrum from competition . This has afforded Safaricom space to innovate with M Pesa engendering a form of developmental patrimonialism within which it has become a vehicle for rents to be centralised and deployed within strategic industries according to a long term vision with profits parcelled back to elites through generous dividend pay outs . Concluding the paper calls for more nuanced political economy understandings of the drivers of innovation and mobile money adoption in particular .

@highlight Literature on innovation is polarised between competing analytical paradigms.
@highlight Neither the neoliberal nor the strong state paradigms can explain M Pesas development.
@highlight Kenyas M Pesa success story is better explained using a political settlements approach.
@highlight Research should move beyond formal institutions to underlying relations of power.
