 An estimated 40 of potential global crop production is lost annually to pests and diseases . Reducing this level of crop loss is critical to increasing agricultural productivity which is essential in achieving the sustainable development goals of zero hunger and no poverty . However the lack of access to timely and relevant advice on crop health problems poses a significant challenge to farmers to take action at the right time to mitigate crop losses . In efforts to address this issue over 4000 plant clinics have been established in 34 countries worldwide where farmers who are struggling with plant pests and diseases can take samples of their sick crops to trained plant doctors for diagnosis and plant health advice . The plant clinic initiative began in 2003 but thus far there has not been a rigorous assessment of the impact of this innovative approach of delivering targeted agricultural extension services . Using a recent panel survey of smallholder maize producers in rural Rwanda this paper attempts to address this gap by analysing the impact of plant clinics on farm performance and on poverty alleviation . Employing the correlated random effects estimation methods to account for unobserved heterogeneity we find that plant clinics significantly increase the adoption of crop protection technologies to control devastating maize pests such as fall armyworm and maize stalk borer and this in turn results in significant maize yield and net income gains of 28 and 23 respectively . We also show that seeking plant health advice from plant clinics is significantly associated with a 5 reduction in the likelihood of a household falling below the extreme poverty line of 1.25 per day . The results imply that policies and programmes aimed at promoting the establishment of and farmers participation in plant clinics can contribute to increased agricultural productivity and poverty reduction .

@highlight We analyze the impact of plant clinics on farm performance and poverty alleviation.
@highlight Panel data from maize growing households in rural Rwanda are used.
@highlight Plant clinics enhance the adoption of crop protection technologies.
@highlight Participation in plant clinics contributes to increased agricultural productivity.
@highlight Plant clinics lessen the incidence of extreme poverty by 5 percentage points.
