 As the result of prohibitively high transaction costs smallholder farmers are only partly integrated into agricultural and forest commodity markets a situation that may leave them in a lower level of development equilibrium . For the most part many users of forest commons extract forest products typically non timber products for subsistence use or safety net purposes . To overcome this problem in recent years collective vertical integration of forest product marketing cooperative structures have been promoted and in some cases adopted by users of forest commons . Although this type of program has been observed to raise smallholder incomes there is little evidence available on saving investment responses to such income gains . This paper investigates precautionary saving and investment responses to collective forest product marketing programs among users of forest commons in Ethiopian villages . To identify the causal effects of the program I applied propensity score matching difference in difference and change in change estimators to household survey data collected from randomly selected households in the Gimbo district . I find strong evidence that participation in the program reduces savings in the form of livestock holdings and that effect is limited to non poor households . When interpreted in terms of the Permanent Income Hypothesis the results imply that participants felt the current income gains to be non transient which led to reduced precautionary savings and to a gain in consumption welfare . Moreover I found that the program has spurred investment in child education and participation in off farm self employment . These results point to the importance of the safety net insurance channel of the program . Overall the findings underscore the programs potential to raise the standard of living via ancillary mechanisms beyond directly raising income outcome .

@highlight I examine the impact of Forest Users Cooperative FUC program on the smallholders saving and investment decisions.
@highlight I estimate these impacts using propensity score matching and difference in difference methods.
@highlight Participation in the FUC reduces savings in the form of livestock holdings.
@highlight Moreover the FUC spurs investment in child education and off farm self employment.
@highlight The safety net effect of the FUC has far reaching implications for long term living standards.
