 Information and communication technologies are acknowledged as a powerful tool used to foster development and to broaden peoples agency . This being so ICT are also the results of specific production processes . And little attention has been given to the degree of sustainability that the places that are currently in charge of producing ICT attain . In this framework we investigate under what conditions specializing in ICT products rewards a territory in terms of technological innovation and socially sustainable development . Our analysis focuses on the case of Dongguan city China which is a core area in the global production of ICT . Industrialization in this area has been mainly FDI led and framed within a Province level industrial specialization policy the Specialized Towns program . We perform an empirical analysis based upon a unique township level dataset covering several years . We then integrate the quantitative data with qualitative fieldwork information on Dongguan ICT specialized townships . Our findings suggest that specializing in ICT can pay in terms of innovative performances provided it is supported by an institutional setting aimed at collectively promoting innovation a sufficient degree of extra cluster relations and a sufficiently high level of education of the population . Social sustainability can be improved in ICT clusters by long experience in public involvement towards building collective action . Since many of these areas do not currently show to have reached such social and economic conditions they risk being captured in a middle income low development trap . Governments targeting ICT specialization should then focus also on devoting specific policy initiatives towards social inclusion .

@highlight We focus on ICT clusters performance in terms of innovation but also and above all of socially sustainable development.
@highlight We analyze ICT clusters within the specialized town program in Dongguan city Southern China.
@highlight Educated local population and foreign linkages improve ICT clusters innovation.
@highlight Social sustainability can be improved in ICT clusters by long experience of public actors in building collective action.
