 Integration of smallholders in outgrower schemes has been advanced as a strategy for poverty reduction in the global south but how terms and conditions of inclusion and exclusion shape divergent outcomes and processes underpinning these local dynamics remain an under researched area . This study set in Zambias southern sugarbelt region of Mazabuka draws on two contrasting outgrower schemes to examine determinants of smallholder inclusion in sugar value chains and consider how various terms and conditions underpining inclusion shape various interests reactions and pathways for value capture among different local groups . Our study reaveals terms and conditions are important in shaping divergent outcomes for smallholders included in sugar value chains . It shows determinants of inclusion and exclusion are complex and go beyond market imperatives that are production related to include social cultural dynamics . The centrality of the paper points to lived realities and experiences for different groups and political reactions from below underlining how socially contested intersection of globallocal value chain produces diverse but interdependent hierarchies of inclusion and exclusion . For an early stage in planning of outgrower schemes by state and non state actors recognition of the various social groups and their complex engagement and reactions to changes in land use and land control will not only expose competing interests but should inform polices institutions and investments to improve value chain impacts . This paper hopes to contribute towards a more nuanced understanding of the complex engagement of smallholders in changes in land use and land control in developing countries in the era of land grabbing .

@highlight We explore structural prodution and non structural non production determinants of inclusion and exclusion.
@highlight Terms and conditions underpin divergent outcomes for smallholders included in sugar value chains.
@highlight Micro processes in outgrower schemes produce diverse but interdependent hierarchies of inclusion and exclusion.
@highlight Reactions to changes in land use and land control is important in exposing competing interests in outgrower schemes.
@highlight Polices institutions and investments should be strenghthened for improved value chain impacts across social groups.
