 The wave of populist authoritarian republics established in the Arab world in the 1950s1960s legitimized themselves by a combination of nationalism developmentalism and populism . Their reneging on this contract goes far to explaining the Arab Uprisings half a century later . PA regimes with initially little popular support needed as part of their struggle to consolidate power at the expense of the old oligarchy and other rivals to incorporate the middle and lower classes into a cross class coalition . They developed a tacit populist social contract in which their putative constituencies were offered social economic benefits in return for political support this accorded with the inherited moral economy of the region in which government legitimacy was conditional on its delivery of socio economic equity and justice . Additionally however authoritarian populism was made possible by developments at the global level such as bi polarity which enabled political protection and economic assistance from the Soviet bloc and the developmentalist ideology that corresponded with the Keynesian era of global economic expansion in which the power of finance capital was balanced by labour and the regulatory state . However by the eighties Keysianism had been superseded by neo liberalism driven by the restoration of the global dominance of chiefly Anglo American finance capital . This global turn was paralleled by the exhaustion of the statist populist development model in MENA . The demands made on MENA governments by international financial institutions for privatization were used by regime elites to foster crony capitalism as they and their cronies acquired public sector assets in parallel pressures for structural adjustment legitimized enforcing austerity on the masses in essence regimes started to

@highlight Arab authoritarian republics were based on populist social contracts.
@highlight Populism was congruent with MENAs moral economy.
@highlight The global political economy determines the viability of the contract.
@highlight Populism was incongruent with global hegemony of finance capital.
@highlight Reneging on the populist contract fuelled the Arab Uprisings.
