 Financial incentives are increasingly popular in development and conservation . A common application involves paying for conservation activities such as for farmers to set aside land for forests known as payments for ecosystem services . Debates about incentives such as PES center around the promise and perils of applying market logics to conservation or development goals . A key concern is the potential of financial motivations to crowd out non financial motivations such as altruism or responsibility . Theoretical debates about the potential impacts of PES programs often assume that PES programs are understood as such by participantsas transactions characterized by a payment for a servicebut research has not sufficiently investigated the extent to which these assumptions hold in practice . We studied Costa Ricas long standing PES program in the traditional cattle ranching region of Guanacaste via in depth interviews with program managers local experts and participants to better understand the range of values and views associated with program payments . We find that whereas program leadership primarily communicated the program as clearly defined payments for specific services provided most farmer participants framed financial payments from the program as a form of non transactional support recognizing their ongoing care for the land and forest . This findingthat market framings did not fully transfer from program leadership through local managers to farmer participantsshows how participants might experience PES programs not as payments for services per se but as acknowledgement for land stewardship and an additional form of rural development assistance . The support for stewards framing of PES as suggested by participants themselves points to a potential leverage point in designing PES programs that enhance connections to nature . More broadly incentive programs of all sorts might consider program framings that reinforce the kinds of values they seek to improve .

@highlight We studied perceptions of Costa Ricas payments for ecosystem services program.
@highlight Participants and leadership used different framings for the PES program.
@highlight Leadership framed the program as a market mechanism.
@highlight Participants more often saw the program as a support for stewards.
@highlight Engaging a support for stewards framing might help prevent motivational crowding out.
