 Research on the effect of climate change on violent armed conflict relies almost exclusively on analysing annual variation in climatic conditions . A shortcoming of this approach is that it conflates weather variation with climate change while implicitly assuming that adverse weather shock could immediately trigger conflict . Although this relatively high frequency data can help understand conflict seasonality it fails to address the question of whether climate change is an important conflict determinant . This study tries to address this issue using long term change in local climate to proxy climate change . Focusing on the African continent shifts in average temperature and precipitation levels are used to estimate the effect on conflict risk between 200317 . The data is analysed using Bayesian model averaging to test if the variables measuring local climatic conditions contribute consistently in explaining conflict risk . The reduced form estimations show that temperature is robustly linked to armed conflict a two standard deviation increase in average temperature corresponds to about a 31 percent increase in conflict risk . Precipitation changes have no discernible effect . Changes in local climate are more strongly linked to the continuation of existing conflicts rather than the outbreak of new ones . The association between climate and conflict found in the analysis also suggests a potential lack of adaptation . While the findings of this study are in agreement with earlier results one remaining shortcoming is that the analysis does not provide much insight into the specific mechanisms linking climate and conflict .

@highlight Study examines the explanatory power of climate in relation to African conflicts.
@highlight It uses long term changes in local climate to proxy climate change rather than using weather variation.
@highlight Results show that temperature is strongly correlated with conflict risk.
@highlight Estimates not robust to adjustment for country level factors such as institutional quality or colonial history.
@highlight Climate variables improve predictive power of model but attaining accurate point predictions remains challenging.
