 International aid work has been increasingly oriented around the administrative form of the aid project . Aid projects are financial and temporal delineations used for the planning implementation and reporting of aid work . Originating as a budgetary reform the project has grown to become an important unit of conceptualization for donors subcontracting NGOs aid workers and the recipients of development projects . As the project has become the dominant form of disbursing aid what effects does this administrative form have on contemporary humanitarian and development work A growing literature on the project form combined with ethnographic research on humanitarian and development aid in Haiti demonstrates how the project is not only an administrative unit but has become a principal product of aid work . Framing the project as a commodity produced within the aid industry illuminates the centrality of exchange rather than donation at the heart of the aid industry . Project documents produced in order to account for implementation assume the form of a commodity as they are exchanged for aid funding . Accordingly project documents have a particular exchange value within the aid industry . One of the more prevalent effects of project based aid is that for NGOs and subcontractors this exchange value can take precedence over services provided to beneficiaries . In order to compete in the market for projects sub contracting organizations seek visibility and documentation which may come at the expense of service provision . This affects the way in which projects are both implemented and evaluated . By illustrating the impacts of the administrative form of aid this research argues for a more focused line of research interrogating the politics of the project .

@highlight Humanitarian and development aid largely revolve around the project form.
@highlight Projects have become commodities exchanged by donors and contractors.
@highlight The project market is marked by an exchange of funding for project documentation.
@highlight Contractor funding priorities privilege project exchange value over beneficiary needs.
@highlight The need for success and visibility distorts design implementation and evaluation.
