 This paper documents interethnic and interfaith marriage patterns to better understand which identity related cleavages matter in sub Saharan Africa . Using Demographic and Health Surveys spanning 15 countries I build a representative sample of women born between 1955 and 1989 . Extrapolating to the population of these countries I find that 20.4 of marriages are interethnic and 9.7 are interfaith indicating that ethnic and religious differences are not always barriers . Accounting for diversity levels both shares are actually similar . Regarding the pooled sample of these 15 countries the share of interethnic marriages increased and there is no country where interethnic marriages became less frequent . The share of interfaith marriages decreased in the pooled sample . Only in Cameroon did interfaith marriages become more frequent . The share of Muslim Christian marriages remained stable in the pooled sample . The increase in the share of interethnic marriages can only partly be explained by increases in urbanization and education levels suggesting that changes in preferences and in social norms may also be at play . The decrease in the share of interfaith marriages is due to decreasing levels of religious diversity traditional religions were replaced by Islam and Christianity . These results show that some ethnic boundaries became more porous whereas religious boundaries did not . However religious boundaries shifted as a result of changes in the religious landscape .

@highlight Using DHS spanning 15 countries I find that 20.4 of marriages are interethnic and 9.7 are interfaith.
@highlight These intermarriages shares indicate that ethnic and religious boundaries are not always barriers.
@highlight Over time the share of interethnic marriages increased while the share of interfaith marriages decreased.
@highlight The rise in the share of interethnic unions is due to urbanization higher education levels and more relaxed social norms.
@highlight The fall in the share of interfaith unions is due to decreasing levels of religious diversity.
