 Chinas manufacturing industry has undergone intense structural change during the enterprise reform . The waxing of private and foreign owned firms and the waning of state owned and collective firms are accompanied by dramatic technological upgrading and productivity growth . We study how ownership type affects technical efficiency and technological advancement in Chinas industrial sectors using detailed firm level data . By employing a metafrontier based technique we are able to account for technology heterogeneity in ascertaining four types of firm ownership in 30 manufacturing sectors . The robust data envelopment analysis offers estimation flexibility and enables us to mitigate data problems . Our results confirm that firm ownership is important in explaining technical efficiency and technology gap among Chinese firms . We show that foreign owned firms set the standard for technical efficiency and are technology leaders . Private ownership is found to dominate state as well as collective ownership in both technical efficiency and technology gap . Over time foreign owned firms take the lead in efficiency improvement and private firms contribute to technology advancement . We also find that China has successfully revitalized state owned firms although room for improvement remains . Lastly we find evidence that China has successfully stimulated technological progress in almost all industrial sectors . We contribute to the literature by using a nonparametric estimation method that assumes technology heterogeneity when firms are partitioned into hierarchical categories . Our study also has rich policy implications on China and other transit economies .

@highlight We find that private ownership is superior to state and collective ownership in technical efficiency and technology level.
@highlight We demonstrate that foreign ownership has the best technical efficiency and the highest technology level.
@highlight Foreign owned firms achieve substantive improvement in technical efficiency whereas technological progress is strongest in private firms.
@highlight Chinas enterprise reform stimulates efficiency improvement among state owned firms but we find no evidence of technological progress among them.
@highlight We observe widespread technological progress among Chinese firms in almost all industrial sectors.
