 Waste collection treatment and safe disposal systems are rare in developing countries as these processes and systems have been mostly viewed from a cost centric perspective in conjunction with weak or non existent environmental policies . Consequently solid waste generation has turned into a problem of significant proportions in many countries with severe degradation of land air and water quality and adverse effects on environment and public health . New waste to energy systems using municipal solid waste to produce energy can serve as a useful bridge towards sustainable waste management . In this paper a quantitative Waste to Energy Recovery Assessment framework is used to stochastically analyze the feasibility of WtE in selected cities in Asia . Future policy measures of feed in tariffs payments for avoided pollution and higher waste collection fees are assessed to evaluate if WtE systems can be made self sustaining investments . The results show that WtE systems can generate up to 290GWh of electricity in Karachi and up to 60GWh in Delhi from municipal waste feedstock from which recyclables have been removed . Net Present Value estimation shows that hybrid WtE technology systems can be feasible in Karachi and Delhi with policy support however Jakartas case is challenging due to higher costs . Future investments for waste systems should use holistic evaluations that incorporate key social benefits and costs not only of energy generation but also of emissions reductions and impacts on public health and identify necessary policy support for ensuring viable and sustainable solutions .

@highlight Waste to Energy Recovery Assessment WERA framework stochastically analyzes waste to energy WtE systems feasibility.
@highlight Hybrid WtE can be feasible in Karachi Pakistan and in Delhi India with higher feed in tariffs and waste collection fees.
@highlight Municipal waste with recyclable paper and plastics removed can generate up to 290 GWh in Karachi and 60 GWh in Delhi.
@highlight WtE social costs and benefits should be considered from the environment public health and waste management policy nexus.
