 This paper sets out to answer the question why African governments aiming to industrialize their economies introduce export bans on some processable commodities and not on others . It forwards the hypothesis that governments fear restricting the export of commodities produced by a larger share of the population as their producers tend to possess significant potential to endanger the political survival of rulers . Importantly the paper argues that large producer groups can unleash this potential because export bans have an extremely severe and visible imp act on them and that equally affected traders have the incentives and means to inform producers about the government s responsibility and organize their protest against it . Yet while the same holds for high export taxes it does not for low export taxes . Low export taxes are less severe and visible in their impact and traders are less agitated given that it is easier for them to pass on price distortions to producers . Producer mobilization is thus less likely and imposing low export taxes even on larger groups poses no significant risk to policy makers . To test the argument against competing explanations I conduct a large N analysis based on an original dataset covering all export bans and taxes employed in 36 African states in the last three decades and find robust support for the core hypothesis the larger the share of the population producing a commodity the less likely governments will impose export bans on them . As expected this also holds for high but not for low export taxes . Overall these findings provide new insights into the critical role politics plays in industrial policy making in Africa and shows that African mass producer groups can overcome usual Olsonian collective action problems to oppose policies adverse to their interests in certain circumstances .

@highlight Group size matters. African governments are less likely to implement export bans on commodities produced by large shares of the population.
@highlight While the same dynamic holds for high export taxes low export taxes are more likely to be imposed on larger groups.
@highlight Since bans and high taxes are particularly severe and attributable governments avoid imposing them on large groups for fear of mass opposition.
@highlight Bans and high taxes also negatively affect traders who can build powerful synergetic defense coalitions with producers.
@highlight These findings are based on the analysis of the original Export Prohibition and Taxation in Africa EPTA dataset.
