 After two decades of implementation Indonesias program to reform its irrigation sector can be assessed yielding lessons on water policy reform . This reform coincided with state wide decentralization and shifted decision making from a central ministry to a distributed arrangement in which local governments and Water User Associations assume part of irrigation authority and budget . The policy was formulated with different stakeholders in 19992004 based on field pilots and was implemented using an adaptive sequential approach while developing institutional capacity of local governments and farmers . Relatively coherent longitudinal monitoring data sets are available on field level practices economic returns on projects and rice production . Institutional development was monitored by performance indicators . The overall reform effectiveness is assessed by analyzing the appropriateness of the new arrangement and the processes of the policy design and of its implementation . After two decades well over three quarters of the country is applying the policy albeit with varying quality . At field level water supply and allocation turned more reliable and conflicts better managed . Rice production increased year over year after 2005 correlating with policy roll out . Irrigation Departments proved less adequate in partnering with farmers however . Institutional capacity generated one quarter to two thirds of the economic benefit from investments that combined scheme rehabilitation and institutional capacity development . As institutional capacity develops slowly full roll out may require up to three decades . The analysis shows that in the context of wicked policy implementation not only normative policy design matters but equally importantly the sequencing of the process of implementation allowing adaptation to physical institutional and political realities still to be successful a process must build on a credible realistic model . This is especially true in developing and emerging economies with weaker institutional capacities and more fragmented governance structures .

@highlight Indonesias irrigation policy reform was successful using an adaptive phased approach.
@highlight Indonesias irrigation policy reform has raised rice productivity by half in a decade.
@highlight Implementation roll out is taking over two decades as knowledge travels slowly.
@highlight Successful policies must combine normative institutional with process based guidance.
@highlight Institutional capacity generated 1 4 to 2 3 of the economic benefit of investments.
