 The main goal of this study was to explore the beneficial effect of nerve growth factor overexpressing of human adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells encapsulated in injectable chitosan glycerophosphate hydroxyethylcellulose hydrogel for spinal cord regeneration . The CS GP HEC hydrogel and genetically transduced hADSCs using pseudo lentiviruses NGF were prepared . The mechanical properties morphology and cytotoxicity of the hydrogel were investigated by rheometry scanning electron microscope and MTT assay respectively . Rats animals were undergone spinal cord injury then one week post injury CS GP HEC hydrogel transduced hADSCs and transduced hADSCs CS GP HEC hydrogel injected into the site of the lesion . Animals with SCI and animals with laminectomy without SCI were considered as negative control and sham groups respectively . Positive control group received no surgical intervention . At eight weeks post injection histological studies indicated a significant increase in cell proliferation a smaller cavity in size at the SCI site as well as better locomotor functions for transduced hADSCs CS GP HEC hydrogel group compared to other experimental groups . Our results showed that CS GP HEC hydrogel in combination with transduced hADSCs is able to successfully regenerate SCI . These results may be applicable in the selection of the best therapeutic strategy based on gene therapy and tissue engineering for SCI treatment .

@highlight Chitosan CS based hydrogels are a great candidate due to its unique properties such as nontoxicity biocompatibility biodegradability antitumor activity and low immunogenicity. In the case of SCI treatment the authors claimed that CS polymer provides great neuroprotection and potent microenvironment for neural tissue repair. However previous studies have not evaluated the therapeutic potential of injectable CS hydrogel in combination with lentiviral mediated NGFoverexpressing ADSCs for the treatment of SCI. In the current study we evaluated the effect of lentiviral mediated NGFoverexpressing ADSCs in the combination of CS based hydrogel for spinal cord regeneration in rat animal model after SCI.
