 Diabetic foot ulcers are one of the most serious complications of diabetes mellitus . Although research has improved understanding of DFU etiology an effective clinical prevention and management of DFUs remains undetermined . Knowledge of recent technologies may enable clinicians and researchers to provide appropriate interventions to prevent and treat DFUs . This paper discusses how diabetes causes peripheral neuropathy and peripheral arterial diseases which contribute to increased risk of DFUs . Then emerging technologies that could be used to quantify risks of DFUs are discussed including laser Doppler flowmetry for assessing plantar tissue viability infrared thermography for early detection of plantar tissue inflammation plantar pressure and pressure gradient system for identification of specific site at risk for DFUs and ultrasound indentation tests to quantify plantar tissue mechanical property . This paper also reviews how physical activity reduces risks of DFUs and how technology promotes adherence of physical activity . The clinician should encourage people with DM to exercise at least 150min per week and assess their exercise log along with the blood glucose log for providing individualized exercise prescription . Last rehabilitation interventions such as off loading devices thermotherapy and electrotherapy are discussed . Although the exact etiology of DFUs is unclear the emerging technologies discussed in this paper would enable clinicians to closely monitor the change of risk of DFUs and provide timely intervention . An integrated approach using all these emerging technologies should be promoted and may lead to a better outcome of preventing and managing DFUs .

@highlight Risk factors of diabetic foot ulcers DFUs can be quantitatively measured with appropriate technologies.
@highlight Risks of DFUs can be reduced through physical activity and physical activity monitoring.
@highlight Rehabilitation modalities may improve outcomes of treating DFUs.
@highlight An integrated approach using available technologies may provide better outcomes on preventing and treating DFUs.
