 Electronic cigarettes usage has surged substantially across the globe particularly among adolescents and young adults . The ever increasing prevalence of social media makes it highly convenient to access and engage with content on numerous substances including e cigarettes . A comprehensive dataset of 560 414 image posts with a mention of vaping was retrieved by using the Instagram application programming interface . Deep neural networks were used to extract image features on which unsupervised machine learning methods were leveraged to cluster and subsequently categorize the images . Descriptive analysis of associated metadata was further conducted to assess the influence of different entities and the use of hashtags within different categories . Seven distinct categories of vaping related images were identified . A majority of the images depicted e liquids followed by e cigarettes . Around one tenth of the dataset consisted of photos with person . Considering the number of likes and comments images portraying person gained the highest engagement . In almost every category business accounts shared more posts on average compared to the individual accounts . The findings illustrate the high degree of e cigarettes promotion on a social platform prevalent among youth . Regulatory authorities should enforce policies to restrict product promotion in youth targeted social media as well as require measures to prevent underage users access to this content . Furthermore a stronger presence of anti tobacco portrayals on Instagram by public health agencies and anti tobacco campaigners is needed .

@highlight Prevalence of photos in online spaces make them highly engaging.
@highlight Large scale analysis of substance use images remain limited so far.
@highlight We use machine learning methods to study Vaping images on Instagram.
@highlight Most of the images depicted e liquids e cigarettes or vaporizers and selfies.
@highlight Instagram is widely used to promote vaping products to the youth.
