 Transition described as the passage between life phases is a universal concept in nursing . Transitions are often accompanied by emotional turmoil as individuals struggle to redefine themselves and adjust and adapt to new life circumstances . Nurses experience transition when they leave a current role to follow new career pathways or areas of clinical practice . Experienced nurses are highly valued for their requisite skills clinical judgment and knowledge and can fill the demand for highly skilled nurses in complex specialized settings such as radiology . However the transitional process can create uncertainty fear and distress for nurses changing clinical practice specialties . Ineffective orientation processes have been linked to higher nurse turnover rates and poor retention within the first year of hiring . The critical demand for competent nurses should drive efforts to ease the transition of these experienced nurses to new clinical areas of practice . The purpose of this project was to develop a transition program for nurses moving into the complex role of interventional radiology nurse . We used Bridges transition theory to form our framework of interventions and strategies to help experienced nurses successfully transition and adapt their prior knowledge and skills to radiologic and imaging nursing .

@highlight Extraordinary advances in radiology nursing have improved diagnosis and treatment of patients.
@highlight While on the other hand the advancement requires a unique set of competencies required of radiology nurses.
@highlight Transitioning into radiology nursing can leave even experienced nurses feeling anxious and stressed.
@highlight Unfortunately the emotional toll on nurses is often unbearable and the transition is unsuccessful and the nurses are not retained in radiology and imaging.
@highlight This article details the application of Bridges Transition model to the creation of an orientation program for experienced nurses transitioning into radiology and imaging.
