 The counting process is designed to prevent retained foreign bodies while providing optimal perioperative patient safety . Intraoperative distractions are prevalent and potentially contribute to patient safety risks . Counting is an important preventative measure that is a human process prone to error especially in this busy environment where multiple things are happening simultaneously . We sought to evaluate the impact of distractions during the count process on patient safety . Trained nationally certified registered nurses used a validated tool to observe the number of interruptions that occurred during the count process in cardiac surgery . Observation included the key personnel that lead the count process including the scrub person circulating nurse attending surgeons fellows and residents of all disciplines . Observation included scheduled cases in the cardiac specialty for the adult population including all shifts . The predictor in this study was distraction . The primary measure of distraction was the total number of distraction for each case . There are different distraction levels for each distraction . Thus weighted distraction score for each case was created as the summation of distraction level and it is the secondary measure of distraction . To detect a medium effect size with 80 power at 0.05 level we needed a minimum sample size of 54 . We correlated the relationship between the number of interruptions observed and sequelae . Working together as a cohesive team to minimize interruptions can enhance patient safety and decrease additional workload across departments .

@highlight This study aimed to investigate the prevalence and description of surgical count interruptions.
@highlight Used an observational design that has been shown to be reliable in capturing interruptions and distractions.
@highlight The wound count had highest interruption level with counts being completely halted.
@highlight Future research should focus on whether interruptions lead to adverse reactions in surgical care.
