 This study was conducted to evaluate awareness and knowledge regarding the risk of the ionizing radiation and exposure doses and the suitable techniques for radiation protection among health care professionals in Tabuk City Saudi Arabia and to identify areas that require further training and education . A total of 196 responses were collected from two hospitals using a structured seven item questionnaire . Data were collected between January and May 2019 in Tabuk City Saudi Arabia . Overall the study shows a negative trend in knowledge related to radiation risk . Most participants believed correctly that x ray radiation doses used for diagnostic imaging examinations might increase the risk of patients developing cancer in the future . In terms of awareness regarding the measures of patients radiation protection 30.3 reported that increasing the distance from the source of radiation would be the best way to reduce radiation risk toward patients . Respondents had difficulties determining the exact amount of radiation dose equivalent to that of a chest x ray in different diagnostic methods . Most respondents reported incorrectly that abdominal ultrasound and brain MRI use ionizing radiation . The knowledge of health care professionals regarding radiation risk needs improvement . A focus on educational interventions on radiation protection is required to develop a well informed medical staff .

@highlight To evaluate awareness and knowledge regarding the risk of the ionizing radiation and safe doses and the suitable techniques for radiation protection.
@highlight 71.8 of the respondents correctly believed that x ray radiation doses used for diagnostic imaging examinations might increase the risk of patients developing cancer in the future.
@highlight Respondents experienced difficulty in estimating the exact radiation dose equivalent to that of chest x ray in different diagnostic methods.
@highlight Vast majority of respondents in this study believed that abdominal ultrasound and brain MRI use ionizing radiation in amounts exceeding that of a chest x ray.
