 Researchers observed that anesthesiologists were not practicing basic radiation safety precautions during fluoroscopic procedures . Anesthesiologists were not wearing lead aprons thyroid shields or dosimeters during fluoroscopy procedures . Anesthesiologists work in theaters where fluoroscopy procedures are performed . During fluoroscopy ionizing radiation is used to generate images of internal structures . Ionizing radiation can not be seen and has no smell but can potentially cause genetic mutation . Therefore these professionals are exposed to the harmful effects of ionizing radiation . Similar findings have been described for orthopedic surgeons and nurses in South Africa . In this study we investigated anesthesiologists level of knowledge of ionizing radiation by describing anesthesiologists compliance to radiation safety measures and then got input on what can be carried out to improve their radiation safety . We used a quantitative research approach using a cross sectional descriptive design . The questionnaires were hand delivered to purposively selected participants and collected immediately after they were completed . Data were analyzed using software STATA 14 . Anesthesiologists had inadequate skills on radiation safety precautions with a subsequent lack of compliance . Anesthesiologists were not compliant with the standard guidelines on radiation safety . 82 of both registrar and consultant anesthesiologists did not wear a dosimeter . None of the registrar anesthesiologists wore dosimeters . There were also limited radiation safety devices including dosimeters provided at the hospitals where they were working . In conclusion there is a need to improve anesthesiologists knowledge on radiation safety precautions .

@highlight Anesthesiologist s knowledge on radiation.
@highlight Use of dosimeter in a fluoroscopy unit.
@highlight Training on ionizing radiation.
@highlight Dosimeter placement during the procedures involving ionizing radiation.
@highlight Anesthesiologist s suggestions on improving radiation safety.
