 As an important agent of environmental change atmospheric nitrogen deposition could have profound effects on terrestrial ecosystems . However previous studies simulating N deposition in forest ecosystems were mostly based on understory manipulations often neglecting canopy processes . Here we employed a novel field experiment simulating N deposition through the canopy addition of N and explored how soil nematode communities change in response to elevated N deposition in comparison with the conventional approach of understory addition of N at two levels of N concentration . We found that 52 and 44 of the N added to the forest canopy at two N concentration levels were retained by the forest canopy . The soil nematode community showed contrasting responses to different approaches of N addition . The conventional UAN approach decreased the abundance of most nematode trophic groups and community diversity compared with CAN approach . This detrimental effect was probably due to changes in fine root biomass and or nematode community composition caused by the high concentration of N directly entering the soils without the canopy N retention process . Our results suggest that the conventional UAN approach might result in an incomplete and potentially misleading understanding of the effects of N deposition on forest ecosystems . The results show that previous studies might have overestimated the negative effects of N deposition on forest ecosystems by overlooking forest canopy processes . In conclusion forest canopy N interceptions contribute to maintaining the composition of soil communities and soil biodiversity under elevated N deposition . Our study helps reconcile some of the discrepancies in the existing literature and demonstrate the urgent need to consider canopy processes in future N deposition studies .

@highlight The approach of understory addition of N negatively affected nematode communities.
@highlight Canopy addition of N seemed to have no detrimental effects on nematode communities.
@highlight Canopy N interceptions of low and high canopy N addition levels were 52 and 44 respectively.
@highlight Canopy N interceptions can maintain soil communities under elevated N deposition.
