 The microbiota in three distinct terrestrial habitats was studied in 33 temperate forest stands differing in management intensity . Specific lipid fractions and respective marker fatty acids were used to determine microbial biomass and community structure energy reserves and community level lipid profiles of nematodes and enchytraeids . The density and diversity of nematode fauna were additionally determined morphologically . The highest total amounts of PLFA and NLFA occurred in the BSC followed by soil and trans habitats indicating stronger effects of habitats than forest management intensity . This corresponds to the distribution pattern of bacterial PLFA that dominated the soil microbiota . The highest nematode population density occurred in the BSC followed by soil and trans . The BSC was dominated by bacterial feeders and omnivores while plant feeding nematodes were most frequent in the crust free soil habitat . The highest biomass of photoautotrophs also occurred in the BSC followed by the crust adhering and crust free soil habitats . Redundancy analysis indicated strong effect of ForMI and total N on soil PFLAs and NFLAs across habitats . The C N and C S ratios were important for the separation of NLFAs while P S accounted for the separation of PLFAs . Bacterial and fungal PLFAs largely separated the microbial community across habitats and particularly between BSC and trans habitats . The separation of nematodes and enchytraeids by CLLP was less pronounced and most distinct between the crust free soil and BSC or crust adhering soil habitats . Overall BSC and crust adhering soil habitats provide different suitability for microbiota resulting in specifically adapted communities that are shaped by the management intensity and nutrient availability .

@highlight Forest management intensity shape biological soil crust with different microhabitats.
@highlight Greater effect of habitats on soil microbiota than forest management intensity.
@highlight Bacterial and fungal PLFAs separated microbial communities across habitats.
@highlight High nematode density in crust dominated by omnivores and bacteria feeders.
