 Many studies have shown that high elevation environments are among very sensitive to climatic changes and where impacts are exacerbated . Across Central Asia which is especially vulnerable to climate change due to aridity the ability of global climate projections to capture the complex dynamics of mountainous environments is particularly limited . Over montane Central Asia agropastoralism constitutes a major portion of the rural economy . Extensive herbaceous vegetation forms the basis of rural economies in Kyrgyzstan . Here we focus on snow cover seasonality and the effects of terrain on phenology in highland pastures using remote sensing data for 20012017 . First we describe the thermal regime of growing season using MODerate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer land surface temperature data analyzing the modulation by elevation slope and aspect . We then characterized the phenology in highland pastures with metrics derived from modeling the land surface phenology using Landsat normalized difference vegetation index time series together with MODIS LST data . Using rank correlations we then analyzed the influence of four metrics of snow cover seasonality calculated from MODIS snow cover compositesfirst date of snow late date of snow duration of snow season and the number of snow covered dates on two key metrics of land surface phenology in the subsequent growing season specifically peak height and thermal time to peak . We evaluated the role of terrain features in shaping the relationships between snow cover metrics and land surface phenology metrics using exact multinomial tests of equivalence . Key findings include a positive relationship between SCD and PH occurred in over 1664km

@highlight Modeled LSP in pastures at 30m using 17years of Landsat and MODIS data
@highlight Prevalent trend of increasing peak NDVI in highland pastures 20012017
@highlight Later snowmelt date and more snow covered dates increased peak NDVI
@highlight Slope was more important than aspect on linkages between snow cover LSP.
