 Recent models of soil organic matter formation propose that the coarse mineral associated fraction could be a pivotal fraction bridging the gap between fresh organic matter inputs and stabilized mineral associated SOM . However little is known about the effect of organic input chemistry and soil texture on the carbon and nitrogen dynamics of this fraction . We studied SOM dynamics in a factorial field experiment comparing 10 combinations of crop residue management with different fertilizer sources including solid poultry liquid dairy and liquid swine manure a mineral fertilizer and a control without N in two soils with contrasted texture . After 9y of management we compared the distribution of C and N within the light fraction the coarse MAOM and the fine mineral associated organic matter fraction of surface soil . We found that retention of mature crop residues increased soil C content through an increase in LF and coarse MAOM but did not influence N content in any fractions . Conversely the fertilizer source influenced C and N accumulation in the coarse and fine MAOM in the silty clay soil where greater values were generally found with poultry and liquid dairy manures . Similar trends were found in the sandy loam soil but statistically significant differences were only found for C in the coarse MAOM fraction . The coarse MAOM fraction had a much lower C N ratio than LF and appeared generally responsive to the different organic inputs . Despite its limited size coarse MAOM appeared to represent a central location for the formation of new SOM and for the accumulation of C and N following fresh organic inputs . We therefore propose that it is considered in models as a pivotal fraction of SOM formation in arable soils .

@highlight The coarse MAOM was responsive to the different organic inputs in the sandy and clayey soil.
@highlight The coarse MAOM fraction had a much lower C N ratio 1516 than LF 2636 .
@highlight Mature crop residues increased C content of the LF and coarse MAOM.
@highlight Poultry and dairy manures increased C and N in coarse and fine MAOM in the clayey soil.
@highlight Coarse MAOM is a pivotal fraction in the formation of new SOM as a function of organic input biochemistry.
