 Topography is one of the key factors that impact remotely sensed data and their interpretation . Indeed combined with the viewing geometry and neighbour effects it strongly affects the direct diffuse and multi scattered scene irradiance which in turn impacts the radiative budget and remote sensing signals of the landscapes . The increased availability of digital elevation models and the advancement of 3D radiative transfer models allow us to better address these topographic effects . DART is one of the most accurate and comprehensive 3D RT models that simulate remote sensing observations of natural and urban landscapes with topography and atmosphere . It simulates environmental effects using a so called infinite slope mode that infinitely duplicates the observed landscape while ensuring the continuity of slope and altitude at the DEM edges . Up to DART version 5.7.4 this mode was slightly inaccurate and computer intensive depending on the topography . This paper presents an innovative modelling strategy that greatly improves it in terms of accuracy image quality and computer efficiency . For that a fictive auxiliary oblique plane adapted to the landscape topography is introduced for managing the scene illumination the Earth Atmosphere coupling and the storage of the radiation that exits the scene before being projected onto the sensor plane . Improvements and validations are illustrated both visually and quantitatively by DART images radiometric products and radiative budget . For example the observed reflectance of a Lambertian slope is equal to the expected analytical value . In addition the solar plane reflectance of a forest on a mountain slope has an average error of about 0.01 relative to the reflectance of the same forest stand in the reference scene . This new modelling is already integrated in the official DART version

@highlight Improved DART accuracy and efficiency for sloping landscapes
@highlight Accurate and uniform scene lighting for any topography
@highlight Energy conservation in Earth and atmosphere RT modelling
@highlight Generation of accurate and high quality remote sensing images
