 The functional trait framework provides a powerful corpus of integrated concepts and theories to assess how environmental factors influence ecosystem functioning through community assembly . While common in plant ecology this approach is under used in microbial ecology . After an introduction of this framework in the context of microbial ecology and enzymology we propose an approach 1 to elucidate new links between soil microbial community composition and microbial traits and 2 to disentangle mechanisms underlying total potential enzyme activity in soil . We address these objectives using a terrestrial grassland ecosystem model experiment with intact soil monoliths from three European countries and two management types subjected to 4 rain regimes under controlled conditions in a common climate chamber . We found tight associations between proxies of microbial ecoenzymatic community weighted mean traits and community composition bringing new information on resource acquisition strategy associated with fungi Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria . We demonstrate that microbial biomass explained most of the total enzyme activity before altered rain regimes whereas adjustments in biomass specific activity explained most variation under altered rain regime scenarios . Furthermore structural equation models revealed that the variation of community composition was the main driver of the variation in biomass specific enzyme activity prior to rain perturbation whereas physiological acclimation or evolutionary adaptation became an important driver only under altered rain regimes . This study presents a promising trait based approach to investigate soil microbial community response to environmental changes and potential consequences for ecosystem functioning . We argue that the functional trait framework should be further implemented in microbial ecology to guide experimental and analytical design .

@highlight We implemented a functional trait framework to study soil microbial communities.
@highlight Community composition linked with enzyme stoichiometry and biomass specific activity.
@highlight Acclimation adaptation controlled biomass specific activity under altered rain regimes.
@highlight Biomass specific activity controlled more total activity under altered rain regimes.
