 Satellite remote sensing of Land and Water Surface Temperature has many applications in studies of terrestrial and aquatic ecology . Retrieval of L WST requires a well calibrated radiometer and an accurate atmospheric correction . In the present study the performance of the Thermal InfraRed Sensor on board Landsat 8 is evaluated for the retrieval of L WST . libRadtran is used to retrieve atmospheric correction parameters based on atmospheric profiles of relative humidity and temperature from three global atmospheric models . Performance of single band retrievals is compared to typical MODTRAN results from the Atmospheric Correction Parameter Calculator and a split window approach . A multi temporal land masking method using imagery from the Operational Land Imager on board Landsat 8 is demonstrated and is used to automatically classify imagery in the matchup dataset in three classes of cloud cover . Two sources of in situ data covering the Belgian Coastal Zone are used for validation of the L WST product fixed locations in the Flemish Banks measurement network and underway data from regular RV Belgica campaigns . In the present study the single band methods outperformed the split window approach and consistent retrievals are found for the MODTRAN and libRadtran simulations . Typical single band surface temperature retrievals in quasi cloud free conditions have Root Mean Squared Differences of 0.7K and 1K for Bands 10 and 11 with low bias depending on the method and atmospheric profile source . For imagery with scattered clouds RMSD values increase to 1K and 2K respectively with an approximately 0.5K cold bias likely caused by cloud proximity . The calibration efforts combined into Collection 1 allows for accurate absolute surface temperature retrievals from B10 on Landsat 8 TIRS for homogeneous targets with known emissivity such as liquid water . The method is adapted to global processing and can be used for Land Surface Temperature retrieval with a suitable source of emissivity data .

@highlight Landsat 8 TIRS Water surface temperature WST is derived using different methods.
@highlight The open source libRadtran is found suitable for atmospheric correction of TIRS.
@highlight In clear conditions the best performing WST product has RMSD 0.7K and MD 0.1K.
@highlight Automated multi temporal land masking is performed for improved cloud screening.
@highlight Full tile processing is supported LST can be estimated using emissivity data.
