 Differential synthetic aperture radar interferometry has been applied in permafrost environments to detect surface deformation caused by freeze thaw processes in the active layer and underlying permafrost . The effectiveness of Sentinel 1 InSAR in monitoring ground surface deformation over continuous permafrost terrain above the treeline has been proven . The heterogeneous landscape and developed vegetation cover increase the difficulty of applying D InSAR in sub Arctic discontinuous permafrost terrain . The potential of Sentinel 1 InSAR in such an environment has not been fully explored . In this study we explore the capabilities and limitations of applying Sentinel 1 time series data for monitoring surface deformation over discontinuous permafrost terrain . The interferometric coherence time series from September 2016 to April 2018 were analyzed over typical landscapes in discontinuous permafrost environments and their thaw subsidence curves are revealed by the small baseline subset InSAR technique . The seasonal thaw subsidence in the summer of 2017 was in the range of 1580mm in the study area . The land cover types with thaw subsidence magnitudes from low to high are exposed land peatland lichenlow shrub lichen dominated and wetland low vegetation . The difference in displacement pattern between lichen dominated and wetland low vegetation dominated permafrost terrains is especially clear at the end of the thawing stage in September and October . The differences in thaw subsidence magnitude and pattern reveal the influence of the soil water content in the active layer and permafrost properties on the thaw subsidence patterns . We also compared the Sentinel 1 retrieved cumulative displacement with the X band TerraSAR X and L band ALOS PALSAR results . The difference of retrieved deformation magnitude using the three sensors is amplified when shrubs are more developed . The findings indicate that Sentinel 1 time series with a 6 day or 12 day span work well over discontinuous permafrost terrain above the tree line during the thawed season but the results and accuracy are not promising over developed shrub tundra and especially forest tundra environments .

@highlight Determination of the applicability of Sentinel 1 in monitoring surface deformation over discontinuous permafrost terrain.
@highlight Description of C band coherence time series over various landscape types in discontinuous permafrost terrain.
@highlight Retrieval of thaw subsidence curves over six landcover types in temporal detail.
@highlight Comparison of displacements derived from C band Sentinel 1 data X band TerraSAR X data and L band ALOS PALSAR data.
