 Our understanding of soil organic matter formation and stabilization mechanisms has evolved recently . The SOM is considered as a continuum from coarse fresh and decomposing plant residues to fine and presumably more stable mineral associated organic matter which represents the major portion of total SOM . Current theoretical models call for a prominent role of microbial by products in FOM formation . However there is still relatively little field based evidence to support these theoretical models especially in arable soils . We examined surface soil quality indicators over 7 years in two Brunisols with contrasting textures under twenty different management systems combining two tillage regimes two crop residue management and five different fertilizer sources . Surface soil quality indicators included soil organic carbon POM C FOM C microbial biomass C plant and microbe derived carbohydrates and mean weight diameter of water stable aggregates . An univariate statistical analysis of these indicators was combined with a principal component analysis to explore the relationships among soil quality indicators and SOC dynamics . In both soil types POM C was closely related to MWD and plant derived carbohydrates whereas FOM C was closely related to microbial amino sugars . These results support the recent conceptual models mainly attributing the formation of FOM C to microbial by products . We found that management practices that favored POM C formation such as reduced tillage and residue retention were particularly efficient to increase surface SOC content irrespective of soil texture . By contrast manuring had a pronounced effect on microbial biomass which resulted in the accumulation of microbial amino sugar and SOC in the silty clay soil only . Use of N rich organic amendments with low lignin content such as manures could therefore be an efficient way to foster the formation of stable SOC through the accumulation of microbe derived FOM precursors in arable soils where clay content is sufficient to allow for the stabilization of microbial by products .

@highlight Surface SOC fractions and precursors were studied under 20 cropping systems.
@highlight POM was related to plant derived carbohydrate and FOM to microbial amino sugars.
@highlight Reduced tillage and residue retention were the best strategies to increase POM.
@highlight Manures increased FOM precursors in the fine textured soil.
