 Microorganisms mediate nutrient cycling in soils and thus it is assumed that they largely control responses of terrestrial ecosystems to anthropogenic nutrient inputs . Therefore it is important to understand how increased nitrogen and phosphorus availabilities first affect soil prokaryotic and fungal community composition and second if and how changes in the community composition affect soil element cycling . We measured soil microbial communities and soil element cycling processes along a nine year old experimental N addition gradient partially crossed with a P addition treatment in a temperate grassland . Nitrogen addition affected microbial community composition and prokaryotic communities were less sensitive to N addition than fungal communities . P addition only marginally affected microbial community composition indicating that P is less selective than N for microbial taxa in this grassland . Soil pH and total organic carbon concentration were the main factors associated with prokaryotic community composition while the dissolved organic C to dissolved N ratio was the predominant driver of fungal community composition . Against our expectation plant biomass and plant community structure only explained a small proportion of the microbial community composition . Although microbial community composition changed with nutrient addition microbial biomass concentrations and respiration rates did not change indicating functional redundancy of the microbial community . Microbial respiration net N mineralization and non symbiotic N

@highlight Nutrient inputs differentially impacted microbial communities and element cycling.
@highlight Soil pH and total organic carbon were main drivers of prokaryotic communities.
@highlight DOC DN ratio was the predominant driver of fungal community composition.
@highlight Element cycling was controlled by abiotic factors not by microbial community change.
@highlight Microbial community change may not necessarily change ecosystem functioning.
