 Coral reefs are the foundation of productive ecosystems in the global tropical oceans and are under threat from a variety of local to global scale stressors . Satellite imagery provides a tool to identify and understand the processes that control coral reef degradation however due to the dynamic nature of seawater constituents current spaceborne multispectral sensors can not reliably discriminate between the many coral reef benthic classes necessary to detect change . Hyperspectral imagers may provide sufficient spectral resolution to estimate water column properties and differentiate benthic classes however the effects of depth seawater constituents and classification algorithm on the accuracy of benthic classifications have not been systematically assessed . Here we simulate the ability of a spaceborne hyperspectral imager to accurately map fractional cover of coral reef benthic classes under a variety of conditions . Benthic reflectance is simulated by combining pure reflectance spectra of coral algae and sand and projecting these mixed spectra through a fully crossed set of water columns . We then use a semi analytical optimization procedure to estimate the water column properties and multiple endmember spectral mixture analysis to estimate the fractional cover of the benthic classes using many independent endmember spectra . We compare our estimated benthic class fractions to the original actual fractions used to produce the mixed coral reef spectra to quantify several measures of error . We found that multiple endmember spectral mixture analysis decreases fractional retrieval error which is also reduced when the first derivative of the mixed and endmember spectra is used prior to unmixing . The estimation of fractional benthic class cover is most accurate for depths 3m for most water conditions . Depths 5m should be classified only if chlorophyll and sediment concentration are 0.1mgm

@highlight Simulated the ability of a hyperspectral imager to map coral reef benthic types
@highlight Investigated the effects of multiple water properties on fractional retrieval error
@highlight Multiple endmember mixture analysis decreases fractional retrieval error.
@highlight Retrieval at depths 5m should only be attempted under clear water conditions.
@highlight Analysis applied to hyperspectral imagery to generate maps of predicted benthic cover fractional retrieval error
