 The core microbiota defines the fraction of microorganisms common to all individuals from the same host species regardless of the abiotic context be they located inside or outside . While the core microbiota of many host species have been documented no study attempted to decipher how these core microbiota could be altered when their respective host species are interacting . We thus tested the hypothesis that interactions between different host species possessing external microbiota could result in a novel emerging entity a core microbiota of an interaction . This is particularly true in soils where such interactions are likely to occur between different host species harboring external microbiota like plants through rhizospheres and earthworms through drilospheres . Using three contrasting soils and a meticulous sampling of different microhabitats coupled to a source sink approach derived from the meta community theory we evidenced the presence of a conserved core microbiota of bacterial OTUs resulting from plant earthworm interactions in all soils . This interaction was also evidenced using a tailored network analysis revealing the presence of signature OTUs always found in earthworms casts and plant rhizospheres and whose co occurrence patterns were indicative of soil type . Furthermore qPCR abundance estimates revealed that not only bacteria but also fungi and archeae are affected by plant earthworm interactions . Our findings provide a new framework to explore aboveground belowground interactions through the prism of microbial communities .

@highlight A core microbiota of the plant earthworm interaction was identified in all soils.
@highlight A core microbiota network specific of casts and rhizosphere was detected.
@highlight Bacteria fungi and archeae are affected by the plant earthworm interaction.
@highlight Soil type modulates plant earthworm interaction on microbial communities.
@highlight This core microbiota fosters revisiting aboveground belowground interactions.
