 Boreal forests are globally extensive and store large amounts of carbon but recent climate change has led to drier conditions and increasing fire activity . The objective of this study is to quantify trends in fire size and frequency using data spanning multiple scales in space and time . We use multi temporal Landsat image compositing on Google Earth Engine and validate results with reference fire maps from the Canadian Park Service . We also interpret general fire trends through the concept of Self Organized Criticality . Our study site is Wood Buffalo National Park which is a fire hot spot in Canada due to frequent lightning ignitions . The relativize differenced normalized burn ratio was the most accurate Landsat based burn severity metric we evaluated . The Landsat based burn severity maps provided a better fit for a linear relationship on the log log scale of fire size and frequency than a manually drawn fire map . Landsat based fire trends since 1990 conformed to a power law distribution with a slope of 1.9 which is related to fractal dimensions of the satellite based fire perimeter shapes . The unburned and low severity patches within the burn severity mosaic influenced the power law slope and associated fractal dimensionality . This study demonstrates a multi scale and multi dataset technique to quantify general fire trends and changing fire cycles in remote locations and establishes a baseline database for assessing future fire activity . Testing criticality by power laws helps to quantify emergent trends of contemporary fire regimes which could inform the strategic application of prescribed fire and other management activities . Natural resource managers can utilize information from this study to understand local ecosystem adaptability to large fire events and ecosystem stability in the context of recent increasing fire activity .

@highlight Image compositing with spectral indices enabled improved mapping of spatiotemporal fire trends.
@highlight The multi temporal fire map created from satellite images followed self organized criticality.
@highlight Fire trends were obtained by a slope in log log scale of size and frequency of fire.
@highlight The slope for fire trends was influenced by fractal dimensions of areas burned by fire.
