 Soil enzymes produced by microorganisms transform substrates in the soil carbon and nutrient cycles . Limitations in C and other nutrients could affect microbial biosynthesis processes so we expect that soil enzyme activity will reflect microbial deficiencies in C nitrogen and phosphorus at a large spatial scale . We collected soil from nutrient addition trials in eight forest ecosystems ranging from temperate forests to tropical forests in eastern China and conducted vector analysis of the soil enzymatic stoichiometry to examine the spatial extent of soil microbial C and nutrient limitations . We also determined whether nutrient addition could alleviate nutrient limitation or otherwise impact soil microbial resource use . Soil microbial C vs. nutrient limitation was greater in the temperate forests than in the tropical forests but did not vary with soil depth . Soil microbial P vs. N limitation decreased with latitude and increased with soil depth . We found a negative relationship between soil microbial C limitation and nutrient limitation which was more pronounced in the topsoil than in deeper soil depths . Furthermore we found that climate soil pH and soil nutrients were significantly correlated with soil microbial C and nutrient limitation . Nutrient addition represented 1 of the variation in soil microbial C and nutrient limitations and thus did not alleviate nutrient deficiencies . We conclude that soil microbial C and nutrient limitations are more likely driven by climate and soil physicochemical properties than by nutrient addition in eight forest ecosystems . Since soil microbial C and nutrient limitations result from long term adaptation of soil microbial communities to site specific soil and environmental conditions the soil enzyme activity is not modified by short term changes in nutrient availability resulting from fertilizer application .

@highlight Soil microbial C and nutrient limitations were studied across eight Chinese forests.
@highlight Microbial C limitation increases with latitude but does not change with depth.
@highlight Microbial nutrient limitation decreases with latitude and increases with depth.
@highlight Climate and soil properties were main drivers of microbial C and nutrient limitations.
@highlight Nutrient addition does not alleviate soil microbial C and nutrient limitations.
