 Soil microbial community data produced by next generation sequencing platforms has introduced a new era in microbial ecology studies but poses a challenge for data analysis huge tables with highly sparse data combined with methodological limitations leading to biased analyses . Methodological studies have attempted to improve data interpretation via data transformation and or rarefaction but usually neglect the assumptions required for an appropriate analysis . Advances in both mathematics and computation are now making model based approaches feasible especially latent variable modeling . LVM is a cornerstone of modern unsupervised learning that permits the evaluation of evolutionary temporal and count structure in a unified approach that directly incorporates the data distribution . Despite these advantages LVM is rarely applied in data analyses of the soil microbiome . Here we review available methods to handle the characteristics of soil microbial data obtained from next generation sequencing and advocate for model based approaches . We focus on the importance of assumption checking for guiding the selection of the most appropriate method of data analysis . We also provide future directions by advocating for the consideration of the dataset produced by sequencing as a representation of microbial detections instead of abundances and for the adoption of hierarchical models to convert these detections into estimated abundances prior to evaluating the microbial community . In summary we show that model assessment is important for qualifying interpretations and can further guide refinements in subsequent analyses . We have only begun to understand the factors regulating soil microbial communities and the impacts of this microbiota on the environment ecosystem . Understanding the assumptions of new methods is essential to fully harness their power to test hypotheses using high throughput sequencing data .

@highlight Neglecting assumption checking can lead to biased microbial community analyses.
@highlight Model based approaches expand the toolkit of microbial community analysis.
@highlight Co occurrences permit the derivation of hypotheses on interactions if accounting for a shared environmental response.
