 A novel method called Continuous Subpixel Monitoring was developed to map and monitor urban impervious surface change continuously at the subpixel level . Time series model of each pixel was first estimated based on clear Landsat observations between 2000 and 2014 and any land surface change was detected by the Continuous Change Detection and Classification algorithm . These coefficients and Root Mean Square Errors of the estimated time series models were then employed as the inputs of random forest regressor . A few experiments with different combinations of variables and bands were explored to better construct random forest regression models . We successfully applied this algorithm to map subpixel urban impervious surface area and characterize its dynamics in Broome County New York . Several conclusions can be drawn from the results and analyses . First the integration of subpixel mapping technique and time series analysis in CSM can yield a relatively satisfactory ISA result at one point in time . With higher precision and smaller bias its mapping accuracy is better than that of National Land Cover Database percent developed imperviousness product without using extensive auxiliary data such as nighttime light image and transportation network . Second the ISA change of any time interval can be easily derived and detected by CSM with relatively high accuracy which have the potential to generate sub annual ISA change products . Furthermore this approach can detect not only urban expansion intensification but also different patterns of urban transitions overtime such as urban demolition redevelopment to vegetation and surface modifications . Finally CSM works well in one of the cloudiest regions in the United States . This algorithm could provide a new direction to map and monitor percent urban impervious surface change in a reliable and efficient way which also has the potential to apply to other land cover types at the subpixel level .

@highlight CSM allows continuous spatially and temporally monitoring at the subpixel level.
@highlight Generated a time series cube with high accuracy to monitor subpixel impervious surface dynamics.
@highlight CSM can automatically detect different patterns of urban transitions overtime.
@highlight Training samples and trained random forest models were transferable with CSM.
@highlight CSM works well in one of the cloudiest regions in the United States.
