 Climate change is a threat to many high latitude regions . Changing patterns in precipitation intensity and increasing glacial ablation during spring and summer have major influence on river dynamics and the risk of widespread flooding . To monitor these rapid events more frequent discharge observations are necessary . Having access to near daily satellite based discharge observations is therefore highly beneficial . In this context the recently launched Sentinel 1 and 2 satellites promise unprecedented potential due to their capacity to obtain radar and optical data at high spatial and high temporal resolutions . Here we use both missions to provide a novel approach to estimate the discharge of the jrs river Iceland on a near daily basis . Iceland and many other high latitude regions are affected by frequent cloud cover limiting the availability of cloud free optical Sentinel 2 data . We trained a Random Forest supervised machine learning classifier with a set of Sentinel 1 backscatter metrics to classify water in the individual Sentinel 1 images . A Sentinel 2 based classification mask was created to improve the classification results . Second we derived the river surface area and converted it to the effective width which we used to estimate the discharge using an at a station hydraulic geometry rating curve . We trained the rating curve for a six month training period using in situ discharge observations and assessed the effect of training area selection . We used the trained rating curve to estimate discharge for a one year monitoring period between 2017 10 and 2018 10 . Results showed a Kling Gupta Efficiency of 0.831 indicating the usefulness of dense Sentinel 1 and 2 observations for accurate discharge estimations of a medium sized high latitude river on a near daily basis . We demonstrated that satellite based discharge products can be a valuable addition to in situ discharge observations also during ice jam events .

@highlight A new method for near daily discharge estimations using Sentinel 1 and 2 was proposed.
@highlight Sentinel 1 backscatter metrics and Random Forest provided water classifications
@highlight A Sentinel 2 based classification mask increased the accuracy.
@highlight The discharge was estimated KGE 0.831 using an effective width based rating curve.
@highlight The effect of different landscape features on the discharge estimation was assessed.
