 Soils support a wide range of ecosystem services that underpin Earth system functioning . It is therefore essential that we have robust approaches to evaluate how anthropogenic perturbation affects soil quality and the delivery of these services . Metabolomics the large scale study of low molecular weight organic compounds in soil offers one potential approach to characterise soils and evaluate the metabolic status of the soil biological community . The aims of the present study were to 1 characterise the soil metabolome across a contrasting range of soil types 2 understand the relationships between common chemical and physical soil quality indicators and its metabolome and 3 evaluate the discriminatory power of soil metabolomics and its potential use as a soil quality indicator . Nine different topsoils with 5 replications were collected along an altitudinal primary productivity gradient encompassing a wide range of soil types and land uses . Metabolites were extracted from soil using 3 3 2 acetonitrile isopropanol water and individual compounds identified using a gas chromatography mass spectrometry platform . Overall 405 individual compounds were detected of which 146 were positively identified including sugars amino acids organic acids nucleobases sugar alcohols lipids and a range of secondary metabolites . The concentration and profile of metabolites was found to vary greatly between the soil types . Further the soils metabolomic fingerprints correlated to a number of environmental factors including pH land use moisture and salinity . We also tentatively attributed soil specific metabolites to potential functional pathways although complementary proteomic genomic and transcriptomic approaches would be needed to provide definitive supporting evidence . In conclusion soil metabolomics offers the potential to reveal the complex molecular networks and metabolic pathways operating in the soil microbial community and a means of evaluating soil function . Further work is now required to benchmark soil metabolomes under a wide range of management regimes so that they can be used for the quantitative assessment of soil quality .

@highlight Soil metabolites were extracted using acetonitrile isopropanol and water.
@highlight Metabolites with contrasting chemical properties were detected using GC MS.
@highlight Soils could be categorized into 4 distinct groups based on metabolite profiles.
@highlight Soil metabolomic fingerprints correlated to several environmental factors.
@highlight Potential functional pathways were indicated for exploration.
