 Plant rhizosphere microbes play a key role in plant soil feedbacks . However the intrinsic principles governing the assembly of the rhizosphere microbial community remain unclear . To understand these principles we studied the taxonomical and functional characteristics of the reassembled maize rhizosphere bacterial communities after transplanting between soils . The composition of the rhizosphere bacterial community was measured by high throughput amplicon based Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the V4 region of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene . The rhizosphere functional profile was assessed using 16S rRNA data in the PICRUSt software . We found that the reassembled rhizosphere bacterial community was recruited from both soil and endosphere communities . The assembly and functional traits of the rhizosphere bacterial community were associated with the concentrations of soil available nutrients . The most important rhizospheric functions were to improve host stress tolerance followed by nutrient cycling functions . The rhizosphere bacterial taxa that improved host stress tolerance were in low abundance and were primarily derived from the surrounding bulk soil . Moreover the rhizosphere nutrient cycling functions were marginalized in nutrient excessive soils . Plants may sacrifice stress tolerance functions and enhance compensatory colonization of nutrient cycling related endophytes in the rhizosphere in nutrient deficient soils . Our results demonstrate that the levels of soil available nutrients mediate the assembly of rhizosphere bacterial communities to satisfy plant required functions . This assembly principle is useful for manipulating the bacterial communities of plant roots to improve agricultural sustainability .

@highlight The rhizosphere bacterial community is recruited from both soil and endosphere communities.
@highlight The rhizosphere bacterial communities are compositionally divergent among soils.
@highlight The rhizosphere bacterial communities are functionally less divergent among soils.
@highlight Soil available nutrient concentrations drive the assembly of rhizosphere microbiome.
