 Complete and accurate burned area map data are needed to document spatial and temporal patterns of fires to quantify their drivers and to assess the impacts on human and natural systems . In this study we developed the Landsat Burned Area algorithm an update from the Landsat Burned Area Essential Climate Variable algorithm . Here we present the BA algorithm and products changes relative to the BAECV algorithm and products and updated validation metrics . We also present spatial and temporal patterns of burned area across the conterminous U.S. how burned area varies in relation to the number of operational Landsat sensors and a comparison with other burned area datasets including the BAECV Monitoring Trends in Burn Severity GeoMAC and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer MCD64A1.006 data . The BA algorithm identifies burned areas in analysis ready data time series of Landsat imagery from 1984 through 2018 using machine learning thresholding and image segmentation . Validation with reference data from high resolution commercial satellite imagery resulted in omission and commission error rates averaging 19 and 41 respectively . In comparison validation with Landsat reference data had omission and commission error rates averaging 40 and 28 respectively when burned areas in cultivated crops and pasture hay land cover types were excluded . Both validation tests documented lower commission error rates relative to the BAECV products . The amount of burned area detected varies not only in response to climate but also with the number of operational sensors and scenes collected . The combined amount of burned area detected by multiple sensors was larger than from any individual sensor but there was no significant difference between individual sensors . Therefore we used BA products from individual sensors to assess trends over time and all available sensors to compare with other existing BA products . From 1984 through 2018 annual burned area averaged 30 000km

@highlight We describe the Landsat Burned Area BA algorithm and products for CONUS.
@highlight The algorithm operationalizes Landsat TM ETM and OLI burned area products.
@highlight Commission error for wildland fires improved over the Landsat BAECV products.
@highlight Omission and commission error rates were lower than coarse resolution BA products.
@highlight Burned area products can be consistently generated from the Landsat archive.
