 Climate change and land use intensification are the two most common global change drivers of biodiversity loss . Like other organisms the soil meso fauna are expected to modify their functional diversity and composition in response to climate and land use changes . Here we investigated the functional responses of Collembola one of the most abundant and ecologically important groups of soil invertebrates . This study was conducted at the Global Change Experimental Facility in central Germany where we tested the effects of climate land use and their interactions on the functional diversity community weighted mean traits and functional composition of Collembola as well as the Soil Biological Quality Collembola index . We found that land use was overwhelmingly the dominant driver of shifts in functional diversity functional traits and functional composition of Collembola and of shifts in soil biological quality . These significant land use effects were mainly due to the differences between the two main land use types i.e . cropland vs. grasslands . Specifically Collembola functional biodiversity and soil biological quality were significantly lower in croplands than grasslands . However no interactive effect of climateland use was found in this study suggesting that land use effects on Collembola were independent of the climate change scenario . Overall our study shows that functional responses of Collembola are highly vulnerable to land use intensification under both climate scenarios . We conclude that land use changes reduce functional biodiversity and biological quality of soil .

@highlight Land use intensification but not climate change influenced Collembola functional responses.
@highlight No interactive effects of climate and land use on Collembola functional variables.
@highlight Intensive land use shifted Collembola functional composition through changing their community weighted mean traits.
@highlight Intensive land use led to the loss of Collembola functional biodiversity.
@highlight Intensive land use eroded soil biological quality.
