 Synthetic aperture radar remote sensing is a potential technique for long term monitoring of landslide prone areas . Pixel offset tracking methods work well for fast moving landslides . However existing methods may present some limitations such as a high dependence of estimation window design on experience a tradeoff between the accuracy of single points and the overall efficiency and a low confidence in the results caused by heterogeneous in window samples . In this paper an improved offset tracking method is proposed to address these problems . First the workflow is optimized by a preseparation step added before offset estimation to distinguish between feature matching and speckle pattern matching . The optimized workflow is more efficient for natural scenes containing both feature and non saliency regions . Second an improved algorithm called adaptive incoherence speckle offset tracking based on homogeneous samples is proposed for non saliency regions . Its two key points are adaptive design of the optimal estimation windows by introducing a coherence map as a guide and offset estimation without heterogeneous samples . We apply the proposed method to study the evolution of the 2018 Jinsha River landslide using SAR data from the Gaofen 3 satellite and the Phased Array type L band Synthetic Aperture Radar 2 system onboard the Advanced Land Observing Satellite satellite . Compared with the traditional method the proposed method improves the efficiency and reduces the uncertainty . We also analyze the spatiotemporal displacement pattern of this landslide which shows that the Jinsha River landslide was most likely a thrust load caused landslide . This study demonstrates the role of SAR remote sensing in global landslide monitoring especially where ground truth data are scarce .

@highlight Improved offset tracking with optimization flow and AISOT HS algorithm is proposed.
@highlight AISOT HS designs adaptive windows and estimates offsets based on homogeneous patches.
@highlight Apply it to study the 2018 Jinsha River landslide with GF 3 data and ALOS 2 data.
@highlight Compared with Trad OT the proposed method improves the efficiency and confidence.
@highlight Displacement pattern analysis indicates this case is a thrust load caused landslide.
