 Phthalates are used as solvents and plasticizers in a wide variety of consumer products . Most people are exposed to phthalates as parent compounds through ingestion inhalation and dermal contact . However these parent compounds are quickly metabolized to more active compounds in several tissues . Although studies indicate that phthalate metabolites reach the ovary little is known about whether they are ovarian toxicants . Thus this study tested the hypothesis that phthalate metabolites influence the expression of genes involved in sex steroid synthesis cell cycle regulation cell death oxidative stress and key receptors as well as production of sex steroid hormones by mouse antral follicles . The selected metabolite mixture consisted of 36.7 monoethyl phthalate 19.4 mono phthalate 15.3 monobutyl phthalate 10.2 monoisobutyl phthalate 10.2 monoisononyl phthalate and 8.2 monobenzyl phthalate . Antral follicles from adult CD 1 mice were cultured for 96h with vehicle control or metabolite mixture . Growth of follicles in culture was monitored every 24h . Total RNA was isolated after 24 and 96h and used for gene expression analysis . Media were collected and subjected to hormone analysis . Exposure to the phthalate mixture inhibited follicle growth decreased expression of steroidogenic enzymes and altered the levels of sex steroids relative to control . The mixture primarily at the two highest doses also altered expression of cell cycle regulators apoptotic factors oxidative stress genes and some receptors . Collectively these data suggest that mixtures of phthalate metabolites can directly impact follicle health .

@highlight A monophthalate mixture dysregulates sex steroid synthesis in antral follicles.
@highlight A monophthalate mixture dysregulates expression of sex steroid synthesis genes.
@highlight A monophthalate mixture decreases antral follicle growth.
@highlight A monophthalate mixture dysregulates expression of cell cycle regulators.
@highlight A monophthalate mixture dysregulates apoptotic factor gene expression.
