 Due to mass production and extensive use the potential adverse health effects of amorphous silica nanoparticles have received a significant attention from the public and researchers . However the relationship between physicochemical properties of ASiNPs and their health effects is still unclear . In this study we manufactured two types of ASiNPs of different diameters and compared the toxic response induced in rats after intratracheal instillation . There were no dose related differences in mortality body weight gain or organ weight between the groups . However both types of ASiNPs significantly decreased the proportion of neutrophils in male rats whereas the levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit were markedly reduced only in female rats instilled with 20nm ASiNPs . ASiNPs induced lung tissue damage seemed to be more evident in the 20nm ASiNP treated group and in female rats than male rats . Similarly expression of caveolin 1 and matrix metalloproteinase 9 seemed to be most notably enhanced in female rats treated with 20nm ASiNPs . The total number of bronchial alveolar lavage cells significantly increased in rats instilled with 20nm ASiNPs accompanying a decrease in the proportion of macrophages and an increase in polymorphonuclear leukocytes . Moreover secretion of inflammatory mediators clearly increased in human bronchial epithelial cells treated with 20nm ASiNPs but not in those treated with 50nm ASiNPs . These results suggest that pulmonary effects of ASiNPs depend on particle size . Sex dependent differences should also be carefully considered in understanding nanomaterial induced adverse health effects .

@highlight Amorphous silica nanoparticles ASiNPs were manufactured by the precipitation method.
@highlight Toxic response of 20 and 50nm size of ASiNPs was compared in male and female rats.
@highlight Dosing related blood biochemical effects were clearly observed in all the treated groups.
@highlight Both types of ASiNPs affected to different hematological parameters in both sexes.
@highlight Lung tissue damage and inflammatory response depended on size and was sex specific.
