 High fat diet induced obesity is implicated in diabetic nephropathy . EX 527 a selective Sirtuin 1 inhibitor has multiple biological functions however its protective effect against DN is yet to be properly understood . This study was aimed to explore the protective effect of EX 527 against DN in HFD induced diabetic Zucker rats . After 21weeks of continually feeding HFD to the rats the apparent characteristics of progressive DN were observed which included an increase in kidney weight hyperglycemia oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines and subsequent renal cell damage . However the administration of EX 527 for 10weeks significantly reduced the blood glucose concentration and kidney weight . Furthermore EX 527 significantly reduced the serum concentration of transforming growth factor 1 interleukin 1 and IL 6 in the HFD fed rats . Overall the antioxidant activities significantly increased and oxidative damage to lipids or DNA was suppressed . Particularly EX 527 significantly reduced blood urea nitrogen serum creatinine microalbumin and urinary excretion of protein based biomarkers . Histopathological examination revealed expansion of the extracellular mesangial matrix and suppression of glomerulosclerosis following EX 527 administration . EX 527 downregulated the expression of SMA TGF vimentin tubulin fibronectin and collagen 1 in the kidneys of the HFD fed rats . Additionally EX 527 substantially reduced claudin 1 and SIRT1 expression but increased the expression of SIRT3 in the kidneys of the HFD fed rats . EX 527 also inhibited the growth factor receptors including EGFR PDGFR and STAT3 which are responsible for the anti fibrotic effect of SIRT 1 . Therefore the administration of EX 527 protects against HFD induced DN .

@highlight Protective effect of EX 527 against DN in HFD induced diabetic Zucker ZDF rats.
@highlight EX 527 significantly reduced the blood glucose level restored kidney morphology.
@highlight Oxidative stress cytokines markers significantly restored with EX 527 in HFD rats.
@highlight Urinary biomarkers expression in HFD rats were significantly reduced with EX 527.
@highlight It down regulated the expression of fibrous biomarkers in the kidneys of HFD rats.
