 Systematic review tools and approaches developed for clinical medicine are often difficult to apply off the shelf in order to meet the needs of chemical risk assessments . To address such we propose an approach that can be used by practitioners for using evidence based methods to facilitate the risk assessment process . The framework builds on and combines efforts conducted to date by a number of agencies and researchers the novelty is in combining these efforts with a practical understanding of risk assessment and translating such into a step by step guide . The approach relies on three key components problem formulation systematic evidence mapping and systematic review applied using a stepwise approach . Unique to this framework is the consideration of exposure in selecting prioritizing and evaluating data . Using the proposed step by step process critical appraisal of individual studies and integration efforts are considered in context of specified risk assessment objectives as well as chemical specific considerations . The resulting framework provides a logical approach of how evidence based methods can be used to facilitate risk assessment and elevates the use of systematic methods beyond hazard identification to directly facilitating transparent and objective selection of candidate studies and or datasets used to quantitatively characterize risk and to better use the underlying process to inform the approaches used to develop toxicity values .

@highlight An adaptive approach to apply evidence based methods for risk assessment is proposed for use by practitioners.
@highlight Framework is applied in a step wise manner problem formulation evidence mapping and systematic review s .
@highlight Approach includes a step by step guide for implementation aspects unique to risk assessment are highlighted.
@highlight Exposure is considered in selecting prioritizing and evaluating data.
@highlight Framework recommends critical appraisal of multiple aspects of validity for individual studies.
