 The Delaney Clause is a provision of the 1958 Food Additive Amendment to the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 which stipulates that if a substance is found by the Food and Drug Administration to be carcinogenic in any species of animal or in humans then it can not be used as a food additive . This paper presents a case study of myrcene one of seven synthetic substances that was challenged under the Delaney Clause ultimately resulting in revocation of its regulatory approval as a food additive despite a lack of safety concern . While it is listed as a synthetic flavor in 21 CFR 172.515 myrcene is also a substance naturally occurring in a number of dietary plants . The exposure level to naturally occurring myrcene is orders of magnitude higher than the exposure via myrcene added to food as a flavoring substance . The National Toxicology Program conducted genotoxicity testing a 13 week range finding study and a two year cancer bioassay in B6C3F1 mice and F344 N rats . An increase in liver tumors was seen in male mice and kidney tumors in male rats ultimately resulting in myrcene being classified by IARC as a Class 2B carcinogen and being listed on California Proposition 65 in contrast myrcene is not classified as a carcinogen by any other regulatory authority . The doses administered in the NTP bioassay were five six orders of magnitude higher than human exposures and the FDA concluded after a thorough evaluation that there was no safety concern associated with the use of myrcene as a flavor substance at the current use level . The Delaney Clause however does not consider the exposure potential or the human health relevance of effects observed in animals . The lack of options available to the US FDA led to the 2018 decision to remove myrcene from the list of approved food additives . This revocation has contributed to the ongoing erosion of trust in regulatory agencies which has both economic implications for food manufacturers and consumers alike and implications for consumer perception of safety of the US food supply . It is time for us to reconsider the rationale behind any legislation that relies on classification alone and whether there is in fact a reason to still classify nongenotoxic carcinogens at all .

@highlight The 1958 Delaney Clause bans all carcinogens from use as food additives.
@highlight  myrcene a rodent carcinogen is a naturally occurring chemical found in our diet.
@highlight  myrcene is now prohibited from use as an added flavor substance in the US.
@highlight US and EU food regulatory agencies agree myrcene raises no safety concern.
@highlight Hazard based cancer classification leads to chemophobia and misperception.
