 A series of regulatory studies were carried out to investigate the effects of the FAAH inhibitor BIA 102474 on fertility embryo fetal toxicity and pre and post natal development in rats and rabbits . Despite some reductions in sperm count in rats from 50mg kg there were no major changes in male fertility up to 100mg kg . In female rats administered up to GD6 there were increases in pre implantation loss at 50 and 100mg kg but neither post implantation loss nor early embryonic development was affected . In contrast when administered to female rats during pregnancy BIA 102474at 75mg kg day reduced food consumption resulting in weight loss increased post implantation loss and reduced mean fetal body weight . In rabbits the same maternal toxicity was seen but there were no effects in this species on post implantation loss or fetal body weights . There were no teratological effects clearly due to BIA 102474 and developmental milestones and behavior of offspring were not affected . When administered during pregnancy and lactation some post implantation loss was seen from 20mg kg day but developmental milestones and behavior of the offspring were not affected although males tended to have lower body weight . Based on these data the NOAEL for parental fertility was established as 50mg kg day the maternal NOAEL during pregnancy was 25mg kg day in rats and developmental NOAEL was 25 and 75mg kg day in rats and rabbits respectively . When administered during post natal development to rats the maternal NOAEL was 6mg kg day . The parental reproductive NOAEL the NOAEL for viability and growth of the F1 offspring the F1 parental NOAEL and the F1 reproductive NOAEL were all considered to be 20mg kg day .

@highlight During a Phase I clinical trial one subject died after receiving BIA 102474 and others displayed neurological signs.
@highlight The effects of BIA 102474 on fertility embryo fetal toxicity and pre and post natal development in rats and rabbits.
@highlight Moderate effects on male and female fertility were found.
@highlight This had minor impact on the offspring with normal developmental milestones.
@highlight Effects seen at higher doses might not be related to FAAH inhibition.
