 Pharmaceutical applicants conduct SAR assessments on identified and theoretical impurities to predict their mutagenic potential . Two complementary modelsone rule based and one statistical basedare used followed by expert review . SAR models are continuously updated to improve predictions with new versions typically released on a yearly basis . Numerous releases of SAR models will occur during the typical 67 years of drug development until new drug registration . Therefore it is important to understand the impact of model updates on impurity mutagenicity predictions over time . Compounds representative of pharmaceutical impurities were analyzed with three rule and three statistical based models covering a 48 year period with the individual time frame being dependent on when the individual models were initially made available . The largest changes in the combined outcome of two complementary models were from positive or equivocal to negative and from negative to equivocal . Importantly the cumulative change of negative to positive predictions was small in all models and was further reduced when complementary models were combined in a consensus fashion . We conclude that model updates of the type evaluated in this manuscript would not necessarily require re running a SAR prediction unless there is a specific need . However original SAR predictions should be evaluated when finalizing the commercial route of synthesis for marketing authorization .

@highlight  Q SAR software version updates are fairly frequent from the time an impurity is initially evaluated until marketing.
@highlight Cumulative changes over a period of 48 years to positive predictions were small.
@highlight Consensus predictions further reduce the incidence of predictions changing from other outputs to a positive prediction.
@highlight It is unnecessary to repeat Q SAR predictions for each software version update unless there is a specific reason.
@highlight Original Q SAR predictions should be evaluated when finalizing the commercial route of synthesis for marketing application.
