 Consortium Linking Academic and Regulatory Insights on BPA Toxicity was a comprehensive industry standard Good Laboratory Practice compliant 2 year chronic exposure study of bisphenol A toxicity that was supplemented by hypothesis driven independent investigator initiated studies . The investigator initiated studies were focused on integrating disease associated molecular and physiological endpoints previously found by academic scientists into an industry standard guideline compliant toxicity study . Thus the goal of this collaboration was to provide a more comprehensive dataset upon which to base safety standards and to determine whether industry standard tests are as sensitive and predictive as molecular and disease associated endpoints . The goal of this report is to integrate the findings from the investigator initiated studies into a comprehensive overview of the observed impacts of BPA across the multiple organs and systems analyzed . For each organ system we provide the rationale for the study an overview of methodology and summarize major findings . We then compare the results of the CLARITY BPA studies across organ systems with the results of previous peer reviewed studies from independent labs . Finally we discuss potential influences that contributed to differences between studies . Developmental exposure to BPA can lead to adverse effects in multiple organs systems including the brain prostate gland urinary tract ovary mammary gland and heart . As published previously many effects were at the lowest dose tested 2.5g kg day and many of the responses were non monotonic . Because the low dose of BPA affected endpoints in the same animals across organs evaluated in different labs we conclude that these are biologically and toxicologically relevant .

@highlight BPA results shown in publications from independent labs were repeated in a guideline study.
@highlight BPA had effects at 2.5 ug kg day in the brain prostate urinary tract ovary mammary gland heart.
@highlight In mammary gland prostate stem cell numbers ovary a non monotonic BPA dose response was observed.
@highlight 2.5 ug kg day should be the new LOAEL for BPA.
