 The incidence of spontaneous pregnancy infant losses is highly variable in long tailed macaques making it potentially difficult to ascertain test item related effects in developmental toxicity studies . Therefore pregnancy normograms had been developed by Jarvis et al . to aid in the distinction of normal versus non normal pregnancy outcomes . These normograms were mostly derived from embryo fetal development studies and from PPND studies with a postnatal phase limited to seven days . However the enhanced pre and postnatal developmental study paradigm has essentially replaced these former study types . This work aims at providing enhanced normograms in the context of regulatory ePPND studies . Survival functions for the prenatal phase and the postnatal phase were estimated using the Kaplan Meier estimator . Normograms were generated from survival curves and pseudo study simulations . Data were available from two test facilities with comparable EU compliant animal husbandry . Pregnancy duration outcome as well as survival functions did not differ significantly between test facilities indicating that this husbandry system yields comparable developmental observations across different test facilities at least in this NHP species . These novel e normograms were developed for pregnant long tailed macaques and provide an extended postnatal period up to three months a new concept of separate normograms for the prenatal and the postnatal period specific information on the perinatal phase events a prediction of expected number of live infants for group size management and the option to evaluate effects on pregnancy duration through distinction of live births and infant losses .

@highlight Assess and benchmark pregnancy outcome data of regulatory ICH driven DART studies.
@highlight New concept of separate normograms through statistical analysis.
@highlight Enhanced normograms based on data derived enhanced pre and postnatal developmental studies.
@highlight Providing new features such as higher resolution around the late stages of pregnancy.
