 As electric vehicle adoption increases there is a need for strategic innovation to manage end of life lithium ion batteries . When no longer viable for vehicle use LIBs still retain significant energy storage capacity . Enabling second use of LIBs for stationary energy storage presents an opportunity for circular economy innovation value retention and sustainable management of raw materials . Second use LIBs used for stationary back up power can also contribute to energy resilience disaster relief and resource efficiency . This study analyzes a circular economy management model for LIBs by integrating three methods Multi criteria decision analysis is used to determine strategic locations for second use LIB stationary deployment geospatial analysis is used to determine efficient transportation routes from LIB consolidation points to strategic destinations and material flow analysis estimates anticipated local availability of second use LIBs . A case study of Berlin Germany is used to demonstrate the model . Results show that under business as usual growth 23 000 second use LIBs could be diverted for second use applications by 2040 and could provide back up power to critical infrastructure such as emergency traffic signals for up to 380h during a disaster event . Under an aggressive electric vehicle adoption scenario to 2040 more than 100 600 LIBs could be diverted from waste providing significant opportunities for post disaster recovery using distributed energy infrastructure . This model demonstrates the potential contribution of integrated circular economy strategies to achieving both resilience and sustainability objectives .

@highlight Rising electric vehicle adoption rates lead to increased EOL vehicle batteries.
@highlight Circular economy for batteries enables resource efficiency and disaster resilience.
@highlight A novel modeling approach integrates material flow and spatial analyses.
@highlight Circular battery management indicates potential for retaining energy storage.
@highlight Coordinated second use battery systems can enable community resilience during disasters.
