 Solid waste management services present a challenge in the Gaza Strip where the infrastructure is inadequate and currently operating landfills are overloaded . This paper examines the solid waste disposal behavior of poor people living in GS refugee camps . A total of 180 semi structured face to face interviews were conducted in the eight camps to collect primary data relevant to SWM and to provide a novel account of the routine events decisions emotions and cognitions related to the disposal of basic household items . A majority of the interviewees perceive a link between their wellbeing and proper waste disposal behavior . The respondents are aware of the adverse impact of improper waste disposal on their health and the surrounding environment and despite their limited financial resources they expressed a willingness to pay for proper SWM services . Current waste disposal practices do not involve separating waste and heads of households are not keen on encouraging their family members to do so . Only a small fraction of the interviewees are aware of any environmental initiatives although all confirmed their concern about the underlying environmental and health issues . All interviewees expressed their substantial dissatisfaction with current disposal practices and the findings reveal that the interviewees who engage in pro environmental behavior are more content . Poor people living in camps tend to dispose of their possessions in three main ways giving away throwing away and selling their items . These methods should be further investigated to assess their feasibility with regard to overcoming the current SWM challenge .

@highlight Local population is not willing to separate their waste from the source.
@highlight Those who abided to pro environmental behavior feel more self content.
@highlight Paradoxically individuals do not feel responsible for improving their situation.
@highlight Recycling and reuse behavior of impoverished consumers is on a comparably low level.
@highlight Inadequate SWM services are perceived to affect the well being of the population.
