 A key challenge for the sustainability of food systems is the question of how to use food that ends up uneaten . One popular guideline for this purpose in OECD countries has been waste hierarchies such as the European waste hierarchy and the 3R approach to reduce reuse recycle applied to food . Yet despite their popularity waste hierarchies applied to food are not systematically being implemented . Moreover a systematic assessment of the effectiveness of the food waste hierarchy in achieving more efficient resource use and reducing environmental impacts is currently not available . We present here a systematic literature review to fill this gap . Our interdisciplinary review has revealed four core insights . First the waste hierarchy applied to food works well with greenhouse gas emissions but needs adjustments for other environmental impacts . Second assessments of food waste prevention although confirmed as the option of highest priority are under represented in the reviewed literature . Third an emerging body of research includes decision criteria for food waste management related to the characteristics of food . Fourth there are numerous barriers to prioritization of the prevention of food waste . We demonstrate a limited potential of the current waste approach to food waste to reduce environmental impacts occurring from food waste . Implications for research for example concerning the lagging behind in food prevention provide an opportunity for research and policy to change the focus towards a food approach to food waste .

@highlight We assess the effectiveness of waste hierarchies in reducing environmental impacts from food waste.
@highlight We present a systematic interdisciplinary literature review.
@highlight Our core insights include that the hierarchy applied to food works for greenhouse gas emissions.
@highlight Food waste prevention is under represented in this literature and faces numerous barriers to implementation.
@highlight There is a need for research and policy to change the focus towards a food approach to food waste.
