 Way back the development of Blockchain technology Traditional supply chain failed to meet the demand of customer of reasonable price with high quality . The current trend is the time to integrate and to make the existing system smarter automated and sustainable . Researchers are working on the integration of information and communication technology with the supply chain and continuously endeavor to achieve an efficient SC . This paper is an attempt to study the use of BC technology and a try to develop efficient sustainable supply chain management rather than the inefficient design of supply chain management . Important variables related to BC are identified from the literature after going through discussion with academician and industry experts . These variables are further analyzed and modeled using Principal Component Analysis Fuzzy Decision making trial and evaluation laboratory . PCA is applied to form the principal factor from these identified variables based on possible correlation . Although the application of Fuzzy DEMATEL is adopted to identify major causes that help to achieve sustainable supply chain after integration of BC technology . The proposed integrated approach of PCA and Fuzzy DEMATEL found six major causes namely Data safety and Decentralization Accessibility Laws and Policy Documentation Data management and Quality . This study is revolving around the integrated approach of two streams namely BC related Information technology and SC from Operations . This research represents the significant role of causes which leads to the integration of BC with the SC resulting in achieving sustainability . BC technology is still in their nuance stage and this study will motivate researcher and industrial practitioners to achieve a more efficient and effective goal in SC practices to achieve sustainability .

@highlight To identify variables for Blockchain based sustainable supply chain.
@highlight To factorize variables using Principal Component Analysis.
@highlight To develop Cause Effect relationship amongst principal factors to identify causes.
