 Coal fly ash utilization as water retention agent to ameliorate soil is attractive in arid semi arid area . FA amendment was expected to make void pore networks in soil better for water retention . The purpose of this study is to investigate FA amendment effect on weight based water holding capacity and evaporation mitigation capacity of soils and sands . EMC represents water loss mitigation capacity against physical evaporation using drying experiments at room temperature and 40C . Because this study hypothesized that particle size of soil sand mainly controls WHC and or EMC sieved soil sand samples were tested . FA amendment effect was significant to increase WHC but much smaller than sieve size effect . On the other hand statistical tests suggested that FA addition had no significant effect on EMC which was contrast to sieve size and temperature effects . Significant interaction was also found between sieve size and temperature . Contrast to the initial hypothesis sieve size effect on EMC was not derived from physical particle size of soil sand but from organic matters contained in sieved samples . Organic matter concentration had a good correlation with the variation of EMC . In addition it showed opposite trends at room temperature and 40C . It means that organic matters mainly control EMC . This study concludes that FA amendment can increase the amount of water remaining water in soil but is not effective to make water retention longer . FA modification using appropriate organic compounds is necessary and it should be designed carefully considering temperature dependency .

@highlight Effect of FA amendment on WHC is statistically significant but smaller than sieve size effect.
@highlight FA amendment gave no significant effect on EMC.
@highlight Sieve size and temperature gave individually significant and interactive effects on EMC.
@highlight Organic matters explained sieve size effect and interactive effect on EMC.
@highlight FA amendment can increase remaining water in soil but not effective to make water retention longer.
