 The adoption utilisation of Lean Agile and Green practices in both the manufacturing and service sector is rising . However there yet remain a research gap to precisely evaluate the relationship between LAG practices and business competitiveness . This research aims to explore this relationship specifically in fast moving consumer goods businesses . The hypothesised relationships are tested with data collected from 96 FMCG companies . Structural Equation Modelling is applied to evaluate different channels of achieving business competitiveness through the adoption of Lean Agile and Green . The findings suggest that competitive outcomes vary with the adoption of LAG practices in specific product life cycle stages . This implies that awareness of the product life cycle concept is essential . A combination of LAG practices for the sole purpose of reducing environmental waste is negatively related to environmental waste reduction . LAG practices are more efficiently adopted when the adopters are equipped with expert knowledge on the paradigms and their individual practices . This research has approached the attainment of competitiveness in the FMCG businesses by analysing management efforts that improve cost performance lead time and environmental sustainability aspects of business operations . The research has also considered the product life cycle stages in analysing the impacts of management efforts .

@highlight There is a research gap to assess the link between Lean Agile and Green LAG practices and business competitiveness.
@highlight This research aims to explore this relationship specifically in fast moving consumer goods FMCG businesses.
@highlight The hypothesised relationships are tested using structural equation modelling.
@highlight The results suggest that competitive outcomes vary with the adoption of LAG practices in specific product life cycle stages.
@highlight This implies that awareness and consideration of the product life cycle PLC concept is essential.
