 Recycling and the reuse of waste materials as a replacement for the traditional construction materials in building and civil infrastructure is a significant step to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the use of natural resources . However most studies have focused on the behaviour of construction and demolition aggregates mixed with a single waste material . To the best of authors knowledge there is no previously published work on using C D aggregates containing both crushed waste glass and crumb rubber for road base subbase applications . In this study a series of experiments were conducted to assess the dynamic behaviour of recycled concrete aggregate and waste crushed rock blended with crumb rubber and crushed glass . Testing included permanent deformation resilient modulus Clegg impact hammer dynamic lightweight cone penetration aggregate crushing value and Los Angeles Abrasion . The cyclic triaxial test is the most reliable test for the evaluation of the behaviour of unbound granular pavement materials under dynamic wheel loads . However the test procedures are very time consuming complicated and expensive . Therefore it is highly desirable to have a simple and straightforward method to evaluate the dynamic behaviour of unbound waste aggregates . For the first time a simple and quick method was proposed in this study for estimating the permanent deformation and resilient modulus properties of three combined waste aggregates by using two simple dynamic tests . The analytical results indicate that a strong correlation exists between the results of the cyclic triaxial test and simple procedure dynamic properties .

@highlight An extensive series of geotechnical tests were conducted to evaluate a new cost effective base subbase.
@highlight The combination of crumb rubber and crushed glass with waste unbound materials could be considered for pavement applications.
@highlight By the inclusion of crushed glass to the aggregates as base sub base material the geotechnical properties were improved.
@highlight Unique relationships between the dynamic properties were obtained.
