 Urban water infrastructures are facing substantial risks from floods and droughts aggravated by global climate change while the adaptation is highly dependent on local conditions . The fine grained vulnerability analysis is necessary but little has been done . A quantitative indicator based approach for vulnerability assessment of urban water infrastructures was developed by successively quantifying exposure sensitivity and adaptive capacity at the city level . When a spatial downscaling was used to project local precipitations for measuring exposures to urban flooding and drought 33 indicators were designed to characterize the sensitivity and adaptive capacity of water related infrastructures in a city . The method was tested with 22 provincial capital cities of China under two emission scenarios including RCP8.5 and RCP4.5 . The sensitivity analysis on indicator weights indicates adequate stableness of the assessment system . Around 40 50 case cities would confront the challenges to better coping with flooding or and drought hazards due to vulnerable infrastructures . Showing no spatial distribution pattern the vulnerability mechanism at the city level is multifactorial driving and heterogeneous while different dimensions of sensitivity and adaptive capacity may dominate separately or synthetically . These findings highlight the necessity of more city level assessments and city specific responses of urban infrastructures . The assessment system could serve as a practical tool to facilitate further understanding of climatic vulnerabilities and development of effective adaptation policies .

@highlight A city level vulnerability assessment system for water infrastructures was built.
@highlight The indicator based method produced stable results under perturbation of weights.
@highlight Half case cities face challenge to flood and drought intensified by climate change.
@highlight Vulnerability is multifactor driving and heterogeneous with irregular distribution.
@highlight Understanding vulnerability at the city level promotes infrastructure adaptations.
