 Black carbon is a significant component of particulate matter that relates to air pollution climate forcing and further implications for public health . BC is predominantly released from the combustion of solid fuels . Combustion of low quality fuels in rural China may induce severe respiratory and cardiopulmonary health outcomes for residents which have however been inadequately assessed . One major reason for the limited understanding is the lack of a high resolution inventory . An improved method of estimating the BC associated public health burden is needed . This work quantified premature mortalities due to residential BC emissions in rural China . Domestic BC emissions at 11km resolution were compiled based on previous field investigation which were further configured for air quality simulation . A chemistry transport model WRFCMAQ v5.2 was employed for simulating BC concentrations . The consequent premature mortalities were quantified by a BC specific concentration response function derived from an epidemiological study . Results show that residential combustion of solid fuel in rural China emitted 648.0 Gg BC in 2014 after dispersion accounting for 51.8 of annual mean ground level BC concentration in China . Such impact was most severe in North and Northeast China and the Sichuan Basin . The further investigation estimated 171 000 premature mortalities that were attributable to exposure to rural residential BC . These findings reveal the major contribution of rural residential BC emissions to air pollution formation and public health impacts . Our findings are anticipated to provide useful information for enacting the next stage environmental strategy for the residential sector in China .

@highlight Residential BC emissions in rural China at 11km resolution was developed based on field investigation.
@highlight Residential combustion of solid fuel in rural China accounted for 51.8 of ground level BC concentrations annually after dispersion.
@highlight 171 000 premature mortalities in China that were attributable to exposure to rural residential BC
