 Photovoltaic and wind power technologies will continue to play a crucial role in decarbonizing global energy systems in the next decades . Estimations of future material demands usually do not include life cycle material losses in its whole extent . This paper presents results of a screening study on life cycle losses including extraction manufacturing and both scrap and end of life recycling processes for eight materials . Besides a framework for calculating the future material demand taking into account the whole life cycle material losses is presented . Based on the projections of the Beyond 2 Degree Scenario by IEA ETP 2017 the cumulated demands and annual demands are calculated and compared to geological reserves and annual production capacities respectively . Results show that total future cumulated demand overshoots current global reserve estimates only for Tellurium Indium and Selenium . Annual Tellurium Indium and Gallium production capacities have to be expanded even in low penetration scenarios . Uncertainties of life cycle losses during manufacturing and extraction phases are higher than in both scrap and end of life recycling . Including life cycle losses may increase material demand of the investigated technologies by factors of 15 37 for Ga In Pr and Se as well as by factors of 4 5 for Dy Nd and Te . Including most optimistic assumptions and technological innovations may decrease material intensities by 1 18 for rare earth elements . These findings have implications for analysts that compare technology demand scenarios to reserve or resource figures since excluding life cycle losses is shown to drastically underestimate necessary material extraction . More explicit statistical tools for quantifying material demand under high uncertainties are suggested .

@highlight Future material demand in energy scenarios must consider life cycle material losses
@highlight The screening study includes losses of 6 critical materials from PV and wind energy
@highlight A framework for calculating material demand inlcuding life cycle losses is proposed
@highlight For each technology at least one material will likely act as a limiting factor
@highlight Future cumulated demand overshoots current global reserves for Te In and Se
