 China has long been the worlds leading plastic waste importer . However in January 2018 the Chinese Government enacted a new policy to permanently ban the import of most plastic waste into the country . This raises an important question what will the impact of this policy be both domestically and globally It is argued that the answer to this question can in part be systematically revealed by employing three methods of analysis . A combined multiregional input output model with structural path analysis to understand how consumption patterns domestically and globally drive Chinas plastic waste imports . An ecological network analysis to identify which region is the dominant controller of the global plastic waste trade network . Lastly a hypothetical extraction method to investigate the value added change for China and the increased requirement of waste treatment capacity for other economies . The results indicate that the imported plastic waste was mainly driven by Chinas domestic consumption of products containing recycled plastic . Given this demand it is recommended that the Chinese Government undertake various actions to increase local plastic waste recycling to compensate for the loss of recycled plastic material since the import ban took place . China is a dominant controller along with the US the European Union and Germany of the global plastic waste trade network . At this stage it is not possible for other large economies to replace the role of China in the short term . Chinas waste import ban caused a minor economic loss for China however it has resulted in the need for other economies to increase their waste treatment capacity . As well as increasing local plastic waste recycling it is recommended the Chinese Government consider reopening imports for high quality recycled material and to seek global collaboration which would not only ease the shortage of recycled plastic material but also buy time for other economies to build new waste treatment plants .

@highlight Impact of Chinas ban on plastic waste imports was quantitatively analyzed.
@highlight China is a dominant controller in the global waste plastic trade networks.
@highlight The ban on plastic waste imports causes low economic loss for China.
@highlight The ban on plastic waste imports leads to recycled material shortage for China.
@highlight Developed economies need to increase waste treatment capacity.
