 The production and consumption of plastics although inevitable in our modern life are predominantly unsustainable and inefficient . Hence the concept of a circular economy for plastics has been proposed as a sustainable approach to thrive both economy and our modern life . To implement a circular economy for plastics an understanding of both individuals and organizations behaviors is needed since psychological effects often undermine technical solutions . We particularly focus on organizations behaviors since commercial plastic waste has not been thoroughly investigated compared to household plastic waste . Using the Theory of Planned Behavior and Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling we assess the determinants of intentions and behaviors of 637 organizations in Belgium towards a circular economy for plastics . Our PLS SEM analysis support that attitudes subjective norms and perceived behavioral control of decision makers positively influence organizations intentions to implement best practices of plastic recycling . Furthermore organizations intentions perceived behavioral control pressures and enablers positively whereas barriers negatively influence organizations behaviors . Our study shows that most organizations have positive intentions yet they seem to be failing in implementing best practices of plastic recycling due to some critical barriers . To overcome this intention behavior gap and to attain a circular economy for plastics our study suggests some measures .

@highlight This study empirically assesses the determinants of organizations intentions and organizations behaviors towards a circular economy for plastics.
@highlight Attitudes and perceived behavioral control of corporate decision makers are the strongest predictors of organizations intentions and organizations behaviors respectively.
@highlight Most organizations are willing to contribute to a circular economy for plastics but they are failing to do so due to some critical barriers.
@highlight This study suggests some measures to overcome this intention behavior gap.
@highlight Government or relevant institutions should provide incentives disseminate knowledge and establish networking platforms.
