 Sustainable consumption transition in relation to consumers environmental behavior and manufacturers governance of sustainability and persuasive communication has not been adequately addressed by prior studies . This study presents theory on ecological modernization transition management and persuasive communication to address sustainable consumption transition . This study proposes a valid set of four aspects and fourteen criteria using the Delphi method . The valid attributes are analyzed using fuzzy set theory and decision making trial and evaluation together to handle the qualitative information and interrelationships among the attributes . This procedure converts qualitative information into numerical data to create a diagram showing the interrelationships among the attributes . This study found that persuasive communication is the most effective factor in convincing consumers to transition to sustainable consumption . Other key factors for this transition include educating consumers augmenting their knowledge and altering their attitudes toward sustainable consumption . Being environmentally friendly product labeling offering an authenticity argument and reusing and recycling products are the solutions found in this study .

@highlight Sustainable consumption transition is an important issue due to the complexity of providing solutions to the increasing volume of waste in landfills.
@highlight Integrating ecological modernization theory transition management theory and persuasive communication is to address sustainable consumption transition.
@highlight This study proposed a valid set of four aspects and fourteen criteria using Delphi method.
@highlight Using fuzzy set theory and decision making trial and evaluation together is to handle the qualitative information and interrelationships among the attributes.
@highlight This study found that persuasive communication is a main attribute to convincing educating and augmenting the knowledge attitude and behavior of consumers to improve the transition to sustainable consumption.
