 Efficiency disparity between the public and private sectors is a non trivial issue that concerns fundamental choices of socio political economic systems . Waste management academia and industry also wrestle with issues relating to the choice between public and private sectors . To examine the disparity exclusively caused by sector in statistics language one needs data that is sufficiently big to control many other confounders e.g . sites project types and construction technologies . This paper attempts to ascertain the construction waste management efficiency disparity between the public and private sectors by using big data in Hong Kong . The waste disposal records of 132 projects including 70 public and 62 private projects were extracted and analysed . By comparing the waste generation flows and accumulative WGFs it is found that by and large there is no significant efficiency disparity in CWM between the two sectors . However a closer investigation discovered that the private sector outperforms their public counterpart in demolition projects while the latter performs better in foundation and new building projects . Although there are private projects with higher CWM performance their divergence between the best and average projects are larger than public ones . Such findings thus reject casual remarks that the private sector is more efficient in CWM . The underlying reasons maybe the waste management index practice promoted in public projects while the private sector is often incentivized to perform better CWM to save waste disposal levies . Future research is recommended to delve into the causes of the efficiency disparity and introduce CWM interventions accordingly .

@highlight Big data can distinguish the public and private disparity with better certainty.
@highlight Overall public and private sectors have no significant CWM efficiency difference.
@highlight The private sector outperformed their public counterpart in demolition projects.
@highlight The public sector performed superior in foundation and new building projects.
