 Composition of municipal solid waste is rapidly changed along with socioeconomic factors especially in developing countries . Understanding the association between MSW composition and socioeconomic factors is therefore instrumental when deciding types of technologies and optimizing management strategies . In the past decades Taiwan has gradually evolved from an agricultural society to a post industrial society through industrialization and urbanization . This study collects a 12 year worth of self reported dataset in Taiwan including MSW individual and household social economic factors in order to unveil their relationships . Our analysis is based on multivariate approach . The results indicate that the major socioeconomic factors that dominate the MSW composition were safety concerns economic activities and lifestyle . Overall MSW composition is increasingly complex as the economy experiences more prosperity and there is an upward trend of recyclable wastes . Moreover kitchen waste represents a distinct pattern between urban and rural communities coupled with the contribution of total waste . Consistent with other countries paper waste is increased in commensurate with the growth of economy . Interestingly contrasting to the global trend plastics and glass wastes generation rate decline when the economy expands economic activities . This attributes mainly to the strict enforcement of recycling policies accompanied with marketing campaigns that encourage recycling and enhance consumers green awareness . Strategies that facilitate modifying consumers socioeconomic factors and changing consumers behavior could play an important role in management of MSW in other developing countries .

@highlight Applying a sequence of three multivariate statistical approaches.
@highlight The greater the economic prosperity the greater MSW composition complexity.
@highlight Kitchen waste represents a distinct pattern between urban and rural communities.
@highlight Paper waste is increased in commensurate with the growth of economy.
@highlight Plastics and glass wastes generation decline contrasting to the expanding economy.
