 Continuous accumulation of materials in cities have led to the prospects of urban mining for secondary resources . Several commodities and or products have been assessed in recent years for urban mining and reuse potential viz . automobiles electronic waste etc . Urban mining for buildings the largest material sinks globally however require considerations which differ from the product centric urban mining approaches . This study proposes a methodological framework for estimating city wide urban mining recovery and reuse potential of building materials and components . First it extends the material stock and flow assessment to urban mining potentials so that recoverable and reusable flows can be highlighted . Secondly it expands potential applications of recoverable flows to provide an impactful representation to stakeholders such as policy makers consumers designers and practitioners . The proposed framework has been applied to the public residential buildings of Singapore a city state in Southeast Asia for assessing building components such as windows doors tiles light fixtures toilet and kitchen fittings . As a case study construction of low cost houses in neighbouring Indonesia was explored to receive building component flows . Results highlight that the reuse of building components could have supported construction in the range of 8301910 houses in 2016 with more than 30 000 households getting benefit over the six years assessed in this study . Overall outflows from the Singapore city can partly support the construction of 22006030 houses annually to resource constrained housing sector in the surrounding developing region . Realization of such a circular economy practice will contribute towards sustainable development goals and climate change mitigation efforts .

@highlight A methodological framework has been developed for estimating reuse potentials.
@highlight Urban mining reuse and housing supply potential has been estimated for Singapore.
@highlight Building demolition outflows have been assessed for construction of low cost housing.
@highlight Singapores annual urban mining can help construct more than 6000 low cost houses.
