 There have been many studies on behavioral costs role in influencing pro environmental behavior however a quantitative and universal measure for behavioral cost is still lacking . In this study we first made an attempt to construct an indirect yet more rigorous measure for behavioral cost . Only with such a behavioral cost measure can more quantitative studies of behavioral costs role on behavior become feasible across a series of pro environmental behaviors . Based on this measure low cost hypothesis is tested and confirmed with our surveyed data . To extend behavioral cost study beyond recycling we have carried out an in depth and extensive study on a series of daily environmental behaviors from Chinas urban residents with cost components associated with each behavior directly surveyed . Key behavioral cost components in each studied environmental behavior have been identified through logit regression analysis . Habits are still hindering China urban residents from conducting pro environmental behaviors across all environmental behaviors significantly . For recycling improper facility is the major barrier while for other resource saving behaviors loss of comfort and financial burden are acting as major behavioral barriers . We also explicitly studied the separate roles of personal norm and perceived efficacy together with attitude and behavioral cost in an integrated framework and we found that personal norm and perceived efficacy play considerable roles for certain behaviors .

@highlight A quantitative and more rigorous measure for behavioral cost and attitude effect on behavior have been proposed.
@highlight Low cost hypothesis is confirmed on our data using new proposed behavioral cost measure and attitude effect on behavior measure.
@highlight We included the cost components directly in the survey for a series of pro environmental behaviors. Key cost components are identified for each behavior of China urban residents through logit regression analysis.
@highlight Personal norm and perceived efficacy are also important for some pro environmental behaviors.
