 Bike sharing especially dockless bike sharing plays a key role in enhancing sustainable mobility in Chinese cities . Unsustainable usage modes and user behavior are increasingly serious problems confronting DBS in China that may substantially threaten its profits and supply . While existing studies have mainly focused on how to promote DBS the issue of the sustainable usage of shared bikes has been largely overlooked . This paper examined the determinants affecting users sustainable usage intention and behavior by incorporating awareness of consequences and moral obligation into the theory of planned behavior . Based on partial least squares structural equation modeling the questionnaire data of 705 users who had used DBS in sustainable ways were empirically analyzed . The results revealed that perceived behavioral control and moral obligation are the most important factors driving users sustainable usage intention and behavior and that behavioral attitude and subjective norms also present significant positive effects on sustainable usage intention . In contrast to the hypothesized relationship the awareness of consequences does not play a significant role in sustainable usage intention . Moreover the empirical results ascertained that the extended model has stronger interpretation ability than the original model in predicting DBS users sustainable usage behavior . Eventually some targeted managerial implications are proposed . This study enhances the current understanding of the sustainable usage behavior of DBS users and provides timely insights for policymakers and operators promoting sustainable bike sharing practices in China and other countries operating DBS programs .

@highlight This paper reveals the determinants driving DBS users sustainable usage behavior.
@highlight In total 67.92 of the survey respondents had used DBS in sustainable ways.
@highlight Perceived behavioral control and moral obligation are the most important drivers.
@highlight The role of awareness of consequences in sustainable usage intention is nonsignificant.
@highlight Useful implications for promoting DBS users sustainable usage behavior are provided.
