 This study develops projections of future spending and savings from electricity efficiency programs funded by electric utility customers in the United States through 2030 based on three scenarios . Our analysis relies on detailed bottom up modeling of current state energy efficiency policies demand side management and integrated resource plans and regulatory decisions . The three scenarios represent a range of potential outcomes given the policy environment at the time of the study and uncertainties in the broader economic and state policy environment in each state . We project spending to increase to 8.6 billion in 2030 in the medium scenario about a 45 percent increase relative to 2016 spending . In the high case annual spending increases to 11.1 billion in 2030 and remains relatively flat in the low case . Our analysis suggests that electricity efficiency programs funded by utility customers will continue to impact load growth significantly at least through 2030 as savings as a percent of retail sales are forecast at 0.7 percent in the medium scenario and 0.98 percent in the high scenario .

@highlight In this study we project future spending from electricity efficiency programs funded by utility customers in the U.S. to increase to 8.6 billion in 2030 in the medium scenario about a 45 percent increase relative to 2016 spending. In the high case annual spending increases to 11.1 billion in 2030 and remains relatively flat in the low case 6.8 billion in 2030 .
@highlight Our analysis suggests that electricity efficiency programs funded by utility customers will continue to impact load growth significantly at least through 2030 with incremental annual savings to increase to 28 and 38 terawatt hours TWh in 2030 in the medium and high scenario respectively.
@highlight Several factors are critical to the future spending and savings trajectory of customer funded efficiency programs 1 impact of declining costs of electricity supply options 2 Federal standards and building codes will moderate savings opportunities for utility programs 3 state leadership drives institutional frameworks for energy efficiency and 4 program portfolios will need to evolve to continue capturing cost effective electricity savings.
