 Riparian zones are among the ecosystems with the highest susceptibility to human impacts and the main drivers influencing their function are river regulation and urbanization . In this study we aimed to assess shifts in species composition of riparian vegetation over three decades and discuss effects of river regulation on species and functional diversity of the understory of riparian plant communities in an urban landscape before and after dam building . We compared riparian vegetation in 59 pre dam plots assigned to four types of riparian vegetation initially investigated in the years 19701984 with 50 post dam plots sampled by us in 2011 2018 . We explored changes in the importance of competition in shaping plant species composition using a set of ecological indicator values plant functional traits and components of functional diversity . Results of the study suggest that river regulation drove compositional shifts in plant communities surveyed probably caused by displacement of species with strategies allowing occurrence under high stress levels by plants with higher competitive abilities including ornamental alien species . We revealed increasing magnitudes of compositional shifts along an environmental gradient of riparian vegetation with the largest changes observed in pioneer forest communities . Implementing natural ows with consideration for relationships between plant strategies and their key life history traits and aspects of the ow regime may be a proper tool for restoration and maintenance of riparian vegetation as buffer zones in urban landscapes .

@highlight How river regulation influence riparian ecosystem functions in long term perspective 
@highlight We assessed shifts in diversity of riparian vegetation in urban areas over 35 years.
@highlight Spatial sequence of vegetation along environmental gradient changed after river regulation.
@highlight Stopped flooding drove competitive displacement of native species by invasive plants.
@highlight Modern environmental changes threat pioneer species and promote alien generalists.
