 Heritage trees are recognized as elements of cultural landscapes and as keystone ecological entities in human dominated landscapes often bestowing high socio cultural and ecological values . Current understanding of species distribution patterns and broad scale species assemblages of heritage trees is limited . This study analyzed the diversity distribution patterns and origins of heritage trees and assessed the underlying factors contributing to their occurrence at the national scale in China . Data were drawn from published and online sources representing 561 regions across China . There were 1140 species including 105 endangered ones preserved as heritage trees . Heritage trees originated from four sources of species provenance natural forest species 73.51 of total species native ruderal species domesticated species and exotic species . The origin of heritage trees differed across climatic zones . At the national and climatic zone scale species similarity among regions was low constrained by geographic distance climate and anthropogenic factors . Mean annual precipitation mean annual temperature population density and GDP per capita were the main determinants of species provenance . Most heritage tree species serve tangible uses especially domesticated and exotic species . Species assemblages of heritage trees were mainly associated with the local plant species pool climate socio economic development status and human preference . As living heritage the trees need dedicated protection measures based on their main tangible and cultural values for human primary threats and statutory protection degree at the species level . Regional culture belief and customary laws should be considered in formulating policies for protection and conservation of these trees .

@highlight Human dominated areas can support exceptionally high diversity of heritage trees.
@highlight Heritage trees were dominated by natural forest species.
@highlight Origins of heritage trees differed across climatic zones.
@highlight Most heritage tree species have tangible values.
@highlight Species assemblage associated with local plant species pools and human preference.
