 Urban trees and grass have different ecological functions and services . Remote sensing provides a feasible way of quantifying urban vegetative cover and distribution at large scale . Most previous studies have used supervised classification based on high resolution images to map urban trees and grass . However due to the lack of specialized features for distinguishing coarse and fine vegetation the classification accuracy of urban trees and grass is consistently low . Although adding 3D topographical information can improve accuracy such data has limited availability . This paper developed a tree grass differentiation index to facilitate the fast and effective classification of urban trees and grass . We examined the performance of the new index by applying it to different classification methods . We compared the classification of Method 1 supervised classification without TGDI Method 2 supervised classification with TGDI and Method 3 rule based classification with TGDI . The results showed that the overall accuracy of Method 1 Method 2 and Method 3 were 84 88 and 90.5 respectively . Using the new index can improve the classification of urban trees and grass regardless if TGDI is used alone for rule based classification or added as a feature for supervised classification . The main advantage of using TGDI is to reduce the misclassification of sunlit portions of trees into grass . The producer accuracy of tree and the user accuracy of grass can be improved by more than 10 when TGDI is applied to supervised classification . This study synthesized texture and spectral features which enhances the traditional approach of index construction based on spectral features alone and without the requirement of detailed 3D surface data . The results suggest a novel way forward for developing indexes that can yield improved accuracies and expand the utility of remote sensing for illuminating patterns of ecological structure and function in urban environments .

@highlight We developed an index that can effectively differentiate tree and grass at fine scale.
@highlight We combined spectral and texture features to construct the index.
@highlight The index works well in both supervised classification and rule based classification.
@highlight The index can reduce the misclassification of sunlit portions of trees into grass.
