 The contribution of single landscape features for supply of cultural ecosystem services is well researched . However only few studies do exist that identified the role of both natural and humanmade physical landscape features for CES of urban forests . Advancing knowledge on the contribution of urban forest elements and their ensemble for values people assign to forest areas can help forest managers prioritize and balance management objectives . Furthermore enhancing understanding on urban forest visitors preference and spatial behavior has the potential to improve existing forest management tools such as forest function maps that are used to address interests of the public . We examined the linkages between CES hotspots and physical landscape features to help urban forest managers identify natural resource management synergies and conflicts and to focus management efforts on features that matter . We elicited spatial CES of urban forests by collecting Public Participation GIS data from city dwellers in three case studies in Germanys Southwest . We derived biophysical characteristics landform and land cover from OpenStreetMap inventory maps high resolution LiDAR satellite imagery and forest function maps of the federal states forestry administration . We used Breiman and Cutlers random forest for regression to assess the contribution of urban forest characteristics for supply of CES . We found humanmade infrastructure like historic sites and sports infrastructure as well as bluespace being most important for the supply of CES whereas natural features and biophysical characteristics were less important . Natural features were most important for cultural heritage inspirational and spiritual values . We conclude that forest managers may promote CES in urban forests best when simultaneously enhancing infrastructure besides considering aesthetic preferences in silviculture .

@highlight We examined 21 urban forest characteristicsin a single statistical model to rank their relative importance for cultural ecosystem services supply.
@highlight We used a random forest for regression and kernel density estimates which is an innovative approach in the field of research.
@highlight 3354 participants mapped 10800 places they found relevant for cultural ecosystem services supply.
@highlight We found humanmade infrastructure being most important while forest characteristics derived from inventory data were least important.
@highlight Findings of this paper have the potential to better incorporate public demands into urban forest management
