 Urban and peri urban forests and woodlands provide an important recreational service for citizens . However these forests are facing increasing pressure due to the ongoing land use encroachment and increased demands for wood based products . Same time the world is getting more urbanized and living in cities is associated with mental health problems and exposure to air pollution and noise . Conversely forests are known to create more healthy environments and the need for effectively restorative forests is even more evident . In this study we investigated whether the restorative effects of forests on people vary according to the forests different management decisions and or ages . We selected four spruce dominated forests that represent well the different management outcomes 1 an urban recreation forest 2 a mature commercial forest 3 a young commercial forest and 4 an old growth forest in its natural state . The study participants visited each forest once . The experiment included 15 min of observation followed by 30 min of walking . We measured the restorative effects perceived restorative outcomes vitality and positive and negative emotions . The restorative effects increased significantly in all forests . The old growth forest and mature commercial forest were significantly most restorative . The urban recreation forest was less restorative than these two but more restorative than the young commercial forest which was at least restorative . In conclusion it is important to preserve forests with old stands close to residential areas . As the forest management decisions and stand age affect restorative qualities they should be taken into account in forest management and land use planning .

@highlight All the forests were restorative.
@highlight The old forests were significantly more restorative than the young forest.
@highlight The old growth forest and mature commercial forest were equally restorative.
@highlight The urban forest was significantly less restorative than the same age class rural forests.
