 The cooling effect of blue green space has been recognized as a promising approach to mitigate the urban heat island while the quantitative role is still uncertain . This paper aims to present the latest progress and controversies on the studies of the cooling effects of waterbodies greenspaces and parks . In order to do this research international search engines were employed to systematically search peer reviewed articles including the cooling effect of blue green space and threshold size based UHI mitigation studies . After that the inductive analysis is used to analyze the relevant literature . We found that previous studies concentrated on the correlations between different landscape types temperature variations and the quantification of cooling intensity etc . However threshold size based research has received less attention which limits the ability to make specific recommendations for actionable planning and management usingthe smallest blue green space for the best cooling effect . The review also revealed the controversies over the effects of blue green space size shape landscape composition and configuration on cooling effect . Besides we pointed out that the uncertainties and the reasons of controversial results of the cooling effect need to be further investigated . We also suggested that more attention should be paid to quantify the contributions of local background climate and landscape characteristics to the cooling effect of blue green space . This review would give us a deeper understanding of the field and provide insights into actionable climate adaption planning .

@highlight The cooling effect of urban blue green space and threshold size based studies are reviewed.
@highlight The controversies and uncertainties on the cooling effect of urban blue green space are revealed.
@highlight The basic framework and perspective of the urban cooling effect studies are proposed.
@highlight The new technology and method for furthering urban cooling effect studies are suggested.
@highlight The implications of the threshold size of blue green space for actionable climate adaption planning are discussed.
