 In addition to their role as critical ecological resources the forests and wetlands of urban parks are integral to the social and psychological well being of many city residents . In this study we use randomized field interviews with 955 New York City park users to explore differences in park use and motivations for park visitation according to site type and gender of respondents . We find that natural areas offer different experiences and social meanings to park visitors compared to the ballfields lawns and playgrounds of landscaped areas . Visitors to urban forests and wetlands are more likely to value a sense of refuge place attachment and the opportunity to experience nature while those in landscaped areas are drawn to a particular park quality or activity . Park users who do not visit natural areas cite their preferences for landscaped park areas as well as specific concerns that these sites of wild urban nature are not safe or accessible for themselves or their children . Our research also reveals differences in the ways that women and men use urban parks and perceive urban natural areas . Women are more likely to visit parks with children and are less likely to visit natural areas than men . In addition people who participate in environmental stewardship groups are more likely to visit urban natural areas than those who do not engage in stewardship . These results provide context for urban natural resource managers as they seek to enhance park access visitor experience and perceptions of safety for all park users .

@highlight Urban natural areas offer a sense of refuge place attachment and nature experience.
@highlight Landscaped park areas provide space for sports activities socializing and children.
@highlight Women are more often in parks with children and less often in natural areas.
@highlight Those who do not visit natural areas may be concerned with safety or accessibility.
@highlight Environmental stewardship group participants are more likely to visit natural areas.
