 Severe chronic irritability is one of the most frequently reported problems in youth referred for psychiatric care . Irritability predicts adult depressive and anxiety disorders and long term impairment . Reflecting this pressing public health need severe chronic and impairing irritability is now codified by the DSM 5 diagnosis of disruptive mood dysregulation disorder . Since DMDD has only recently been added as its own nosological class efficacious treatments that specifically target severe irritability as it presents in DMDD are still being developed . In a recent pilot study we described the general concept of exposure based cognitive behavioral therapy for irritability . This mechanism driven treatment is based on our pathophysiological model of irritability that postulates two underlying mechanisms which potentiate each other heightened reactivity to frustrative nonreward and aberrant approach responses to threat . In this case report we describe and illustrate the specific therapeutic techniques used to address severe irritability in an 11 year old boy with a primary diagnosis of DMDD . Specific techniques within this CBT include motivational interviewing to build commitment and target oppositionality creation of an anger hierarchy in session controlled gradual exposure and parent training focusing on contingency management to counteract the instrumental learning deficits in irritable youth . Parents learn to tolerate their own emotional responses to their youths irritability and increase their adaptive contingencies for their youths behavior . Future directions in the context of this CBT such as leveraging technology computational modeling and pathophysiological targets are discussed .

@highlight Exposure based cognitive behavioral therapy as treatment for severe irritability
@highlight Parent management training as important treatment module for severe irritability
@highlight Clinically rich example of a case with disruptive mood dysregulation disorder
@highlight Discussion of future directions and research pursuits
