 This paper presents our ongoing efforts toward the development of a multi-agent distributed framework for autonomous control of mobile manipulators. The proposed scheme assigns a reactive agent to control each degree-of-freedom of the manipulator(s), a hybrid agent to control the mobile base, and a supervisory agent to coordinate and synchronize the work of the control agents. Each control agent implements a Simulation-Verification technique to optimize, locally and independently from the other agents, a predefined objective function. The final goal consists of bringing the end-effector as close as possible to imposed operational targets (reaching tasks). Different simulation scenarios are described and carried out for the case of RobuTER/ULM robot, with and without considering failures of some articulations of the manipulator or the mobile base. Results show that the main advantage of the proposed approach is that the system pledges a fault-tolerant response to some breakdowns without needing any specific additional treatment. it represents the situation (position and orientation) of the imposed Target it represents the initial/current situation of the end-effector of the robot in the absolute frame. The first three values are the position of the end-effector; the last three represent its orientation angles it corresponds to the new situation of the end-effector after the Move Up/Move Down movement of the joint i of the manipulator it represents the new situation of the end-effector of the robot after the forward/backward/turn left/turn right movement of the mobile base it represents the initial/current/final situation (position and orientation) of the mobile base it represents the new situation of the mobile base after the forward/backward/turn left/turn right movement carried out by the Mobile base agent it corresponds to the initial/current/final configuration of the manipulator joints it corresponds to the new configuration of the manipulator joints after the Move Up/Move Down movement carried out by the Joint agent it represents the initial/current/final (after optimization) value of the objective function

@highlight We propose a generic multi-agent control architecture for mobile manipulators.
@highlight Robot complex mathematical models are not required, so computing time is reduced.
@highlight The strategy is fault-tolerant to breakdowns without needing specific treatments.
@highlight The proposed approach works in 3D environments with high dof mobile manipulators.
@highlight Accuracy of the proposed approach is good comparatively to classical approaches.
