 The emerging IEEE 802.22-based Wireless Regional Area Network (WRAN) is the first wireless standard based on the Cognitive Radio (CR) technology. WRAN is designed to offer wireless access services in a large coverage area by allowing Secondary Users (SUs) to opportunistically exploit the under-utilized licensed portion of spectrum that is primarily allocated for TV services. To enable efficient WRAN communications, the operation of a WRAN system should address two types of coexistence problem: incumbent co-existence and self-coexistence. In this paper, we investigate the self-coexistence problem in a multi-cell WRAN system that adopts an exclusive spectrum sharing policy. Specifically, we present an adaptive channel allocation scheme based on a cooperative max–min weighted fair allocation strategy. The proposed scheme is based on a centralized sensing mechanism that identifies the available spectrum opportunities for the WRAN cells. Our scheme dynamically allocates the available spectrum (idle channels) to the WRAN cells based on their expected traffic loads such that the total number of simultaneously admitted SU transmissions in the WRAN system is maximized. The expected traffic load is accurately estimated using a sample mean estimator based on previously monitored traffic in each cell. Simulation results indicate that our scheme is quite robust to traffic estimation error. Compared to reference spectrum allocation schemes, simulation results indicate that the proposed scheme effectively exploits the available spectrum opportunities by increasing the total number of served SU transmissions, which consequently results in a significant enhancement in the overall WRAN system performance.

@highlight We investigate the self-coexistence problem in a multi-cell WRAN system.
@highlight We propose an adaptive traffic-aware exclusive channel allocation scheme.
@highlight The proposed scheme is based on a cooperative max-min weighted fair mechanism.
@highlight Compared to other schemes, results reveal that our scheme provides significant performance gain.
