 Dynamic images that possess beauty and are user-friendly can increase the use of digital technology. In addition to information conveyance, dynamic images also act as a communication bridge in the human–machine interface. Dynamic images are widely used in the application of digital media. Therefore, understanding the visual effects of dynamic images on viewers is a very important issue. From a visual communication design perspective, dynamic images influence not only image quality, but also the viewers’ perception and impression of the displayed image. In the contemporary age characterized by universal usage of dynamic images, designers should attain synchronized knowledge and understanding of relevant media technology so as to present preferred design quality in the management of digital design such as animation design, Web page design, multimedia design, and so on. The current study noted that psychological effects such as viewers’ visual attention, preferences, and understanding were more important than image quality. Therefore, this study adopted the viewpoint of “visual design” and conducted a perceptual evaluation of grating frequency and grating velocity. The pair-comparison method and scale method were adopted in the research methodology to simplify perceptual evaluations and enhance their validity. The purpose of this study was:  To propose recommendations for displaying dynamic images and improving image performance using perceptual evaluation methods.  To examine the influence of psychological factors on viewer’s comfort when they experience dynamic images.  To identify the best grating feature combinations that meet viewer’s psychological characteristics and propose recommendations for dynamic images design. The study concludes that it is useful to establish criteria for evaluating users’ perception and to, develop perceptual evaluations of dynamic images. It is recommended that designers find a balance between watching a moving imaging display “clearly” and watching it “comfortably” for successful reception by the viewer.

@highlight To propose visual evaluation methods recommendations for displaying dynamic images.
@highlight To examine the influence of psychological factors of dynamic images on viewer.
@highlight To meet the best grating feature combinations of viewer.
