 The spectral analysis of Heart Rate Variability (HRV) can be used for assessing the autonomic nervous activities and further the physiological conditions of subjects. This study intended to explore whether or not people would have fatigue, faintness and other kinds of uncomfortable conditions after watching a 3D film by using HRV measures as the objective physiological indices, in addition to other subjective physiological indices. Twenty men aged 22±2 experienced watching 3D films and 2D films and were served as the controls of themselves. As the controls, the subjects had to rest at the same place. All subjects were are randomized for taking different experiences, and the electrocardiographic (ECG) signals were recorded during the whole process. The researchers could obtain the indices of the autonomic nervous activities before and after experiencing 3D and 2D movies with the help of spectral HRV analyses, along with the objective physiological information. The subjects were requested to fill out the questionnaire for the subjective feelings after the movie experiences. It was found that the subjects’ high-frequency power (HFP) representing parasympathetic nervous activities decreases after watching a 3D film. The sympathetic and parasympathetic nerve activities before and after watching a 2D film were not significantly different. The subjects complained that they felt dizzy, had headaches, and got visual fatigue while watching a 3D film. This study found that the subjects’ parasympathetic nerve activities were reduced after watching a 3D film, indicating that watching a 3D film would make people uncomfortable and tired. This result was the same as that of the questionnaire. Thus, HRV analyses could be an objective physiological index for discomfort as viewing 3D films.

@highlight HRV analysis can be used to assess the various fatigue and uncomfortable.
@highlight The subjects’ parasympathetic nerve activity was reduced after watching a 3D film.
@highlight Watching a polarized 3D film would make people uncomfortable and tired.
