 Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) traffic streaming over vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs) challenge could be distinguished by the frequent VANETs topology change, paired with real-time streaming of IPTV traffic which requires high bandwidth and strict performance service quality. For VANETs to deliver better quality IPTV traffic, the network must satisfy the compelling Quality of Service (QoS) requirement of real-time traffic streaming, such as jitter, bandwidth, delay, and loss. There are numerous metrics defined in the literature for evaluating multimedia streaming traffic QoS such as: video quality metric, peak-signal-to-noise-ratio, moving picture quality metric and many more. However, these metrics relied upon the objective approach of quality evaluation that requires the original signal as reference, and cannot isolate the impact of network impairments on the video quality. Therefore, fail to provide any mapping between the network QoS parameters and the respective deteriorated quality of the multimedia traffic. Similarly, such procedures are not practically applicable to VANETs whose network characteristics make it practically impossible to access the reference video sequence. Hence, in this paper, we conduct an experiment to determine the feasibility of delivering a qualitative IPTV service over VANETs. We derived analytical model to quantify the IPTV QoS influencing parameters, where we establish relationships between the variables of each parameter and their impacts on the IPTV traffic QoS. Through extensive experiment, we evaluate the IPTV transmission QoS parameters, to assure a priority for handling bandwidth allocation, delay and loss control to a negligible level.

@highlight We experiment via simulation the feasibility of deploying quality IPTV over VANETs.
@highlight We derived model that quantifies the network parameters as they affect IPTV QoS.
@highlight We established a connection between each parameter and their impacts on IPTV QoS.
@highlight Using MDI: DF scheme, we outline a method for adequate buffer size configuration.
