 The histopathological examination of tissue specimens is necessary for the diagnosis and grading of colon cancer. However, the process is subjective and leads to significant inter/intra observer variation in diagnosis as it mainly relies on the visual assessment of histopathologists. Therefore, a reliable computer-aided technique, which can automatically classify normal and malignant colon samples, and determine grades of malignant samples, is required. In this paper, we propose a novel colon cancer diagnostic (CCD) system, which initially classifies colon biopsy images into normal and malignant classes, and then automatically determines the grades of colon cancer for malignant images. To this end, various novel structural descriptors, which mathematically model and quantify the variation among the structure of normal colon tissues and malignant tissues of various cancer grades, have been employed. Radial basis function (RBF) kernel of support vector machines (SVM) has been employed as classifier in order to classify/grade colon samples based on these descriptors. The proposed system has been tested on 92 malignant and 82 normal colon biopsy images. The classification performance has been measured in terms of various performance measures, and quite promising performance has been observed. Compared with previous techniques, the proposed system has demonstrated better cancer detection (classification accuracy=95.40%) and grading (classification accuracy=93.47%) capability. Therefore, the proposed CCD system can provide a reliable second opinion to the histopathologists.

@highlight A novel colon cancer detection and grading system has been proposed.
@highlight The system exploits structural variation among various colon tissue types.
@highlight The system mathematically quantifies the variation in terms of some novel features.
@highlight The shape of lumen is the most discriminating factor among different tissue types.
@highlight RBF kernel of SVM shows promising results for classification of colon cancer data.
