 Objective Many regional programs of the countries educate asthmatic children and their families to manage healthcare data. This study aims to establish a Web-based self-management system, eAsthmaCare, to promote the electronic healthcare (e-Healthcare) services for the asthmatic children in Taiwan. The platform can perform real time online functionality based upon a five-tier infrastructure with mutually supportive components to acquire asthma diaries, quality of life assessments and health educations. Methods We have designed five multi-disciplinary portions on the interactive interface functioned with the analytical diagrams:  online asthma diary,  remote asthma assessment,  instantaneous asthma alert,  diagrammatical clinic support, and  asthma health education. The Internet-based asthma diary and assessment program was developed for patients to process self-management healthcare at home. In addition, the online analytical charts can help healthcare professionals to evaluate multi-domain health information of patients immediately. Results eAsthmaCare was developed by Java™ Servlet/JSP technology upon Apache Tomcat™ web server and Oracle™ database. Forty-one voluntary asthmatic children (and their parents) were intervened to examine the proposed system. Seven domains of satisfiability assessment by using the system were applied for approving the development. The average scores were scaled in the acceptable range for each domain to ensure feasibility of the proposed system. Conclusion The study revealed the details of system infrastructure and developed functions that can help asthmatic children in self-management for healthcare to enhance communications between patients and hospital professionals.

@highlight Five-tier infrastructure with mutually supportive components on e-Healthcare system.
@highlight Five multi-disciplinary portions on interactive interface with online diagrams.
@highlight Internet-based asthma diary and remote QOL assessment for self-management at home.
@highlight Online diagrammatical clinic support for evaluating real time health information.
@highlight Instantaneous asthma alert and health education for healthcare improvement.
