 Background and objective The adoption of computerized physician order entry is an important cornerstone of using health information technology (HIT) in health care. The transition from paper to computer forms presents a change in physicians’ practices. The main objective of this study was to investigate the impact of implementing a computer-based order entry (CPOE) system without clinical decision support on the number of radiographs ordered for patients admitted in the emergency department. Methods This single-center pre-/post-intervention study was conducted in  (before CPOE period) and  (after CPOE period) at the emergency department at Nîmes University Hospital. All patients admitted in the emergency department who had undergone medical imaging were included in the study. Results Emergency department admissions have increased since the implementation of CPOE (5388 in the period before CPOE implementation vs. 5808 patients after CPOE implementation, p =.008). In the period before CPOE  patients (44%) had undergone medical imaging; in the period after CPOE  patients (40%) had undergone medical imaging (p =.008). In the period before  medical imaging procedures were ordered; in the period after  medical imaging procedures were ordered (p =.006). In the period before  radiographs were ordered; in the period after  radiographs were ordered (p <.001). The time between emergency department admission and medical imaging did not vary between the two periods. Conclusions Our results show a decrease in the number of radiograph requests after a CPOE system without clinical decision support was implemented in our emergency department.

@highlight The main objective of this study was to investigate the impact of implementing a computer-based order entry system without clinical decision support on the number of radiographs ordered for patients seen in the emergency department.
@highlight Our results show a decrease in the number of radiographs ordered after computer-based order entry system implementation, despite an increase in the number of emergency department admissions.
@highlight Our study also shows that the time interval between emergency department admission and medical imaging was not affected by this new workflow.
