 Background and objective Classification of gene expression data is the common denominator of various biomedical recognition tasks. However, obtaining class labels for large training samples may be difficult or even impossible in many cases. Therefore, semi-supervised classification techniques are required as semi-supervised classifiers take advantage of unlabeled data. Methods Gene expression data is high-dimensional which gives rise to the phenomena known under the umbrella of the curse of dimensionality, one of its recently explored aspects being the presence of hubs or hubness for short. Therefore, hubness-aware classifiers have been developed recently, such as Naive Hubness-Bayesian k-Nearest Neighbor (NHBNN). In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised extension of NHBNN which follows the self-training schema. As one of the core components of self-training is the certainty score, we propose a new hubness-aware certainty score. Results We performed experiments on publicly available gene expression data. These experiments show that the proposed classifier outperforms its competitors. We investigated the impact of each of the components (classification algorithm, semi-supervised technique, hubness-aware certainty score) separately and showed that each of these components are relevant to the performance of the proposed approach. Conclusions Our results imply that our approach may increase classification accuracy and reduce computational costs (i.e., runtime). Based on the promising results presented in the paper, we envision that hubness-aware techniques will be used in various other biomedical machine learning tasks. In order to accelerate this process, we made an implementation of hubness-aware machine learning techniques publicly available in the PyHubs software package () implemented in Python, one of the most popular programming languages of data science. the set of k-nearest neighbors of x. probability that x belongs to class C given its nearest neighbors the probability of the event that x appears as one of the k-nearest neighbors of any labeled training instance belonging to class C the prior probability of the event that an instance belongs to class C how many times x occurs as one of the k-nearest neighbors of labeled training instances belonging to class C how many times x occurs as one of the k-nearest neighbors of other instances when considering lab

@highlight A semi-supervised hubness-aware classifier is proposed.
@highlight The classifier is evaluated on publicly available real gene expression data.
@highlight We made the implementation of hubness-aware machine learning techniques available in the PyHubs software package.
