 Nowadays, the increasing demand for group recommendations can be observed. In this paper we address the problem of recommendation performance for groups of users (group recommendation). We focus on the performance of very Top-N recommendations, which are important when recommending the long lasting items (only a few such items are consumed per session, e.g. movie). To improve existing group recommenders we propose a mixed hybrid recommender for groups combining content-based and collaborative strategies. The principle of proposed group recommender is to generate content and collaborative recommendations for each user, apply an aggregation strategy to solve the group conflict preferences for the content and collaborative sets separately, and finally reorder the collaborative candidates based on the content-based ones. It is based on an idea that candidates recommended by both recommendation strategies at the same time are presumably more appropriate for the group than the candidates recommended by individual strategies. The evaluation is performed by several experiments in the multimedia domain (as typical representative for group recommendations). Both, online and offline experiments were performed in order to compare real users’ satisfaction to the standard group recommenders and also, to compare performance of proposed approach to the state-of-the-art recommenders based on the MovieLens dataset. Finally, we experimented with the proposed hybrid recommender to generate the recommendation for a group of size one (i.e. single user recommendation). Obtained results, support our hypothesis that proposed mixed hybrid approach improves the precision of the recommendation for groups of users and for the single-user recommendation respectively on very Top-N recommended items.

@highlight Novel group hybrid method combining collaborative and content-based recommendation.
@highlight Proposed method improves the quality of recommended items ordering.
@highlight Proposed method increases the recommendation precision for very Top-N results.
@highlight Applicable for single user as well as group recommendation.
