 In the Single Source Capacitated Facility Location Problem (SSCFLP) each customer has to be assigned to one facility that supplies its whole demand. The total demand of customers assigned to each facility cannot exceed its capacity. An opening cost is associated with each facility, and is paid if at least one customer is assigned to it. The objective is to minimize the total cost of opening the facilities and supply all the customers. In this paper we extend the Kernel Search heuristic framework to general Binary Integer Linear Programming (BILP) problems, and apply it to the SSCFLP. The heuristic is based on the solution to optimality of a sequence of subproblems, where each subproblem is restricted to a subset of the decision variables. The subsets of decision variables are constructed starting from the optimal values of the linear relaxation. Variants based on variable fixing are proposed to improve the efficiency of the Kernel Search framework. The algorithms are tested on benchmark instances and new very large-scale test problems. Computational results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach. The Kernel Search algorithm outperforms the best heuristics for the SSCFLP available in the literature. It found the optimal solution for 165 out of the 170 instances with a proven optimum. The error achieved in the remaining instances is negligible. Moreover, it achieved, on 100 new very large-scale instances, an average gap equal to 0.64% computed with respect to a lower bound or the optimum, when available. The variants based on variable fixing improved the efficiency of the algorithm with minor deteriorations of the solution quality.

@highlight We apply the Kernel Search to the Single Source Capacitated Facility Location Problem.
@highlight We find the optimal solution for 165 out of 170 instances with a proven optimum.
@highlight We outperform the best heuristics for the SSCFLP available in the literature.
@highlight We achieve an average gap equal to 0.64% on 100 new very large-scale instances.
@highlight The heuristic can be easily adapted to any Binary Integer Linear Programming problem.
