 We present a new method called UTA GMS –INT for ranking a finite set of alternatives evaluated on multiple criteria. It belongs to the family of Robust Ordinal Regression (ROR) methods which build a set of preference models compatible with preference information elicited by the Decision Maker (DM). The preference model used by UTA GMS –INT is a general additive value function augmented by two types of components corresponding to “bonus” or “penalty” values for positively or negatively interacting pairs of criteria, respectively. When calculating value of a particular alternative, a bonus is added to the additive component of the value function if a given pair of criteria is in a positive synergy for performances of this alternative on the two criteria. Similarly, a penalty is subtracted from the additive component of the value function if a given pair of criteria is in a negative synergy for performances of the considered alternative on the two criteria. The preference information elicited by the DM is composed of pairwise comparisons of some reference alternatives, as well as of comparisons of some pairs of reference alternatives with respect to intensity of preference, either comprehensively or on a particular criterion. In UTA GMS –INT, ROR starts with identification of pairs of interacting criteria for given preference information by solving a mixed-integer linear program. Once the interacting pairs are validated by the DM, ROR continues calculations with the whole set of compatible value functions handling the interacting criteria, to get necessary and possible preference relations in the considered set of alternatives. A single representative value function can be calculated to attribute specific scores to alternatives. It also gives values to bonuses and penalties. UTA GMS –INT handles quite general interactions among criteria and provides an interesting alternative to the Choquet integral.

@highlight We propose a multicriteria ranking method handling interactions between criteria.
@highlight Preference model is a set of value functions compatible with preference information.
@highlight Value functions include bonus/penalty values for interacting pairs of criteria.
@highlight For given preference information, we identify the pairs of interacting criteria.
@highlight Robust ordinal regression is used to get necessary & possible preference relations.
