 Due to the ongoing trend towards increased product variety, fast-moving consumer goods such as food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, and chemicals are typically manufactured through so-called make-and-pack processes. These processes consist of a make stage, a pack stage, and intermediate storage facilities that decouple these two stages. In operations scheduling, complex technological constraints must be considered, e.g., non-identical parallel processing units, sequence-dependent changeovers, batch splitting, no-wait restrictions, material transfer times, minimum storage times, and finite storage capacity. The short-term scheduling problem is to compute a production schedule such that a given demand for products is fulfilled, all technological constraints are met, and the production makespan is minimised. A production schedule typically comprises 500–1500 operations. Due to the problem size and complexity of the technological constraints, the performance of known mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) formulations and heuristic approaches is often insufficient. We present a hybrid method consisting of three phases. First, the set of operations is divided into several subsets. Second, these subsets are iteratively scheduled using a generic and flexible MILP formulation. Third, a novel critical path-based improvement procedure is applied to the resulting schedule. We develop several strategies for the integration of the MILP model into this heuristic framework. Using these strategies, high-quality feasible solutions to large-scale instances can be obtained within reasonable CPU times using standard optimisation software. We have applied the proposed hybrid method to a set of industrial problem instances and found that the method outperforms state-of-the-art methods. scheduled batches new batches tasks {PM,FM,S,P} units groups of identical batches scheduled make batches new make batches scheduled pack batches new pack batches scheduled batches that require task scheduled batches whose task is performed on unit/tank new batches that require task new batches that require task and can be assigned to unit new batches that require task k and belong to group scheduled make batches that supply scheduled pack batch new make batches that can supply new pack batch scheduled pack batches that are supplied by scheduled make batch new pack batches that can be supplied by new make batch units that perform task assigned unit for scheduled batch and available units for new batch final-mix units that can be connected to premix unit PM immediate successor(s) of batch last pack batch in the processing sequence of unit duration of task PM FM for batch duration of task for batch on unit (= for PM FM quarantine time of make batch transfer time of make batch PM PM pump out time of make batch changeover time between batch and on unit capacity of tank size of make batch (batch independent) size of pack batch (batch independent) position of task of batch in processing sequence value of in previous iteration; in the first iteration, prev position of storage task of batch in tank j in storing sequence value of ij in previous iteration; in the first iteration, ij prev makespan of previous iteration; in the first iteration, C prev =0 makespan of packing line of previous iteration; in the first iteration, prev sufficiently large number start time of task of batch amount of material that make batch supplies to pack batch through tank makespan of production plan makespan of packing line =1, if make batch supplies pack batch ; =0, otherwise =1, if batch is assigned to unit for task ; =0, otherwise if batch is processed stored before batch for task if batch is processed stored after batch for task

@highlight Complex batch production processes of the make-and-pack type.
@highlight Hybrid method consists of decomposition, construction and improvement phase.
@highlight Novel strategies for efficient integration of MILP scheduling models.
@highlight Computational results for a real-world process of The Procter & Gamble Company.
@highlight Hybrid method can devise optimal solutions and compares favourably to the state-of-the-art.
