 The purpose of this research is to help manufacturing companies identify the key performance evaluation criteria for achieving customer satisfaction through Balanced Scorecard (BSC) and Multiple Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) approaches. To explore the causal relationships among the four dimensions of business performance in Balanced Scorecard as well as their key performance criteria, a MCDM approach combining DEMATEL and ANP techniques is adopted. Subsequently, the MCDM framework is tested using Delphi method and a questionnaire survey is conducted in 24 manufacturing firms from Taiwan, Vietnam and Thailand. The research findings indicate that manufacturing companies should focus more on improving customer perspectives such as customer satisfaction and customer loyalty by integrating products and services innovation and providing diversified value-added product–service offerings as well as developing close long-term partnership with customers. In addition, the classification of importance and improvability into four strategic planning zones provide practicing managers with a decision making tool for prioritizing continuous improvement projects and effectively allocating their resources to those key criteria identified in the strategic map for business performance improvement. By identifying critical criteria and their interrelationships, our research results can help manufacturing companies enhance their business performance in both financial and non-financial perspectives. They can also serve as valuable guidelines and references for manufacturing companies to achieve better customer satisfaction through sustainable product–service system practices.

@highlight We propose an approach for achieving customer satisfaction in manufacturing firms.
@highlight The key criteria can be identified through an integrated BSC and MCDM approach.
@highlight A questionnaire survey was conducted in 24 manufacturing firms from 3 countries.
@highlight The results show that various customer perspectives need to be further improved.
@highlight We provide a procedure for identifying key criteria and their interrelationships.
