 Comparison of human brain MR images is often challenged by large inter-subject structural variability. To determine correspondences between MR brain images, most existing methods typically perform a local neighborhood search, based on certain morphological features. They are limited in two aspects:  pre-defined morphological features often have limited power in characterizing brain structures, thus leading to inaccurate correspondence detection, and  correspondence matching is often restricted within local small neighborhoods and fails to cater to images with large anatomical difference. To address these limitations, we propose a novel method to detect distinctive landmarks for effective correspondence matching. Specifically, we first annotate a group of landmarks in a large set of training MR brain images. Then, we use regression forest to simultaneously learn  the optimal sets of features to best characterize each landmark and  the non-linear mappings from the local patch appearances of image points to their 3D displacements towards each landmark. The learned regression forests are used as landmark detectors to predict the locations of these landmarks in new images. Because each detector is learned based on features that best distinguish the landmark from other points and also landmark detection is performed in the entire image domain, our method can address the limitations in conventional methods. The deformation field estimated based on the alignment of these detected landmarks can then be used as initialization for image registration. Experimental results show that our method is capable of providing good initialization even for the images with large deformation difference, thus improving registration accuracy.

@highlight We propose a novel method to detect distinctive landmarks for effective correspondence matching.
@highlight The method can accurately detect corresponding landmarks in the case of large anatomical variations.
@highlight The method can automatically identify informative features and search correspondence in the entire image domain.
@highlight The method can provide good initialization to registration, especially for images with large deformation difference.
