 There has been a great deal of research on software quality, but few studies have stressed the factors beyond the scope of software products that can influence the final product's quality. These factors can also determine project success. Objective In this paper, a comparative study is conducted of the determinants of software quality, based on a prior study that only explored U.S. CIOs' (Chief Information Officers) perceptions of factors that could affect the final quality of software products. The aim of this study is to explore the perceptions of different users involved in the software development cycle and generate results that can be generalized and employed as an aid in the management of software project resources. Method The study was conducted through an online survey to various users involved in the software development cycle in Brazil. The respondents analyzed the same 24 items proposed in the previous study, categorized into individual, technological, and organizational factors. Based on the 175 responses obtained, a factor analysis technique was applied, considering the statistical model of the main components in order to identify the factors determining the quality of software products. Results After the factor analysis, it was identified that all 24 analyzed items displayed factor loadings greater than 0.5. Nine factors (9 eigenvalues greater than 1.0) were extracted from this analysis, with the value of the total variance equal to 72%. Conclusion Based upon the comparison between the studies, it was concluded that the most relevant factor identified in both surveys presented an individual character. This factor related items such as competence, training, knowledge, and level of user involvement as well as resistance to change. It was also identified through factor analysis that technological aspects had the highest ratings due to the strong relationship of the items comprising these factors compared to organizational aspects.

@highlight Individual character is the most relevant factor identified as determining of software products' quality.
@highlight Competence, training, knowledge, and level of user involvement as well as resistance to change are items related to this factor.
@highlight Technological aspects had the highest ratings compared to organizational aspects due to the strong relationship of the items.
