 Background After several years of treatment, patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) tend to have, as a side effect of the medication, dyskinesias. Close monitoring may benefit patients by enabling doctors to tailor a personalised medication regimen. Moreover, dyskinesia monitoring can help neurologists make more informed decisions in patient's care. Objective To design and validate an algorithm able to be embedded into a system that PD patients could wear during their activities of daily living with the purpose of registering the occurrence of dyskinesia in real conditions. Materials and methods Data from an accelerometer positioned in the waist are collected at the patient's home and are annotated by experienced clinicians. Data collection is divided into two parts: a main database gathered from 92 patients used to partially train and to evaluate the algorithms based on a leave-one-out approach and, on the other hand, a second database from 10 patients which have been used to also train a part of the detection algorithm. Results Results show that, depending on the severity and location of dyskinesia, specificities and sensitivities higher than 90% are achieved using a leave-one-out methodology. Although mild dyskinesias presented on the limbs are detected with 95% specificity and 39% sensitivity, the most important types of dyskinesia (any strong dyskinesia and trunk mild dyskinesia) are assessed with 95% specificity and 93% sensitivity. Conclusion The presented algorithmic method and wearable device have been successfully validated in monitoring the occurrence of strong dyskinesias and mild trunk dyskinesias during activities of daily living.

@highlight The necessary algorithms to evaluate the occurrence of dopaminergic-induced dyskinesias in the activities of daily life are developed.
@highlight Sensor placement at the waist provides a good resolution for almost any choreic dyskinesias and provides a good usability and comfort to the patient.
@highlight A new frequency based approach is proposed to evaluate the occurrence of dyskinesias.
@highlight The algorithm presented has been evaluated on a database of signals of 92 PD patients and provides specificities and sensitivities above 90%.
