 Crashworthiness simulation system is one of the key computer-aided engineering (CAE) tools for the automobile industry and implies two potential conflicting requirements: accuracy and efficiency. A parallel crashworthiness simulation system based on graphics processing unit (GPU) architecture and the explicit finite element (FE) method is developed in this work. Implementation details with compute unified device architecture (CUDA) are considered. The entire parallel simulation system involves a parallel hierarchy-territory contact-searching algorithm (HITA) and a parallel penalty contact force calculation algorithm. Three basic GPU-based parallel strategies are suggested to meet the natural parallelism of the explicit FE algorithm. Two free GPU-based numerical calculation libraries, cuBLAS and Thrust, are introduced to decrease the difficulty of programming. Furthermore, a mixed array and a thread map to element strategy are proposed to improve the performance of the test pairs searching. The outer loop of the nested loop through the mixed array is unrolled to realize parallel searching. An efficient storage strategy based on data sorting is presented to realize data transfer between different hierarchies with coalesced access during the contact pairs searching. A thread map to element pattern is implemented to calculate the penetrations and the penetration forces; a double float atomic operation is used to scatter contact forces. The simulation results of the three different models based on the Intel Core i7-930 and the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 580 demonstrate the precision and efficiency of this developed parallel crashworthiness simulation system.

@highlight A parallel crashworthiness simulation system based on GPU is developed.
@highlight Contact-searching and contact force calculations are parallelized.
@highlight Two novel strategies are proposed to improve the test pairs searching.
@highlight A strategy is presented to realize coalesced access between different hierarchies.
