 Compressive sensing (CS) is an emerging approach for acquisition of sparse or compressible signals. For natural images, block compressive sensing (BCS) has been designed to reduce the size of sensing matrix and the complexity of sampling and reconstruction. On the other hand, image blocks with varying structures are too different to share the same sampling rate and sensing matrix. Motivated by this, a novel framework of adaptive acquisition and reconstruction is proposed to assign sampling rate adaptively. The framework contains three aspects. First, a small part of sampling rate is employed to pre-sense each block and a novel approach is proposed to estimate its compressibility only from pre-sensed measurements. Next, two assignment schemes are proposed to assign the other part of the sampling rate adaptively to each block based on its estimated compressibility. A higher sampling rate is assigned to incompressible blocks but a lower one to compressible ones. The sensing matrix is constructed based on the assigned sampling rates. The pre-sensed measurements and the adaptive ones are concatenated to form the final measurements. Finally, it is proposed that the reconstruction is modeled as a multi-objects optimization problem which involves the structured sparsity and the non-local total variation prior together. It is simplified into a 3-stage alternating optimization problem and is solved by an augmented Lagrangian method. Experiments on four categories of real natural images and medicine images demonstrate that the proposed framework captures local and nonlocal structures and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.

@highlight We propose a novel framework of adaptive sensing and reconstruction.
@highlight The blocks' compressibility is estimated from pre-sensed measurements.
@highlight The sampling rate is assigned based on the estimated blocks' compressibility.
@highlight Structured sparsity prior and non-local total variation prior are employed in reconstruction.
