 Anthropogenic impacts on the aquatic environment, especially in the context of nutrients, provide a major challenge for water resource management. The heterogeneous nature of policy relevant management units (e.g. catchments), in terms of environmental controls on nutrient source and transport, leads to the need for holistic management. However, current strategies are limited by current understanding and knowledge that is transferable between spatial scales and landscape typologies. This study presents a spatially-explicit framework to support the modelling of nutrients from land to water, encompassing environmental and spatial complexities. The framework recognises nine homogeneous landscape units, distinct in terms of sensitivity of nutrient losses to waterbodies. The functionality of the framework is demonstrated by supporting an exemplar nutrient model, applied within the Environmental Virtual Observatory pilot (EVOp) cloud cyber-infrastructure. We demonstrate scope for the use of the framework as a management decision support tool and for further development of integrated biogeochemical modelling. Geospatial framework to support integrated biogeochemical modelling in the United Kingdom Greene, S.a, Johnes, P.J., Bloomfield, J.P., Reaney, S.M., Lawley, R., Elkhatib, Y., Freer, J., Odoni, N., MacLeod, C.J.A., Percy, B. Address: aCentre for Ecology & Hydrology, Maclean Building, Benson Lane, Crowmarsh Gifford, Wallingford, Oxfordshire, OX10 8BB, United Kingdom shgreene@tcd.ie +44  1491 692495 +44  1491 692424 2012 Any GIS enabled device GIS software ESRI shapefile (vector polygon) 585 MB Contact author directly at shgreene@tcd.ie

@highlight High resolution geospatial biogeochemical framework for modelling nutrient flux.
@highlight Nitrogen and phosphorus modeled across many spatial scales in the United Kingdom.
@highlight Upscales from grid to river catchment, regional and national scale.
@highlight Knowledge transfer from data-rich research catchments to data-poor areas.
@highlight Many other biogeochemical models can be fit to the framework.
