 In the field of water distribution system (WDS) analysis, case study research is needed for testing or benchmarking optimisation strategies and newly developed software. However, data availability for the investigation of real cases is limited due to time and cost needed for data collection and model setup. We present a new algorithm that addresses this problem by generating WDSs from GIS using population density, housing density and elevation as input data. We show that the resulting WDSs are comparable to actual systems in terms of network properties and hydraulic performance. For example, comparing the pressure heads for an actual and a generated WDS results in pressure head differences of ±4 m or less for 75% of the supply area. Although elements like valves and pumps are not included, the new methodology can provide water distribution systems of varying levels of complexity (e.g., network layouts, connectivity, etc.) to allow testing design/optimisation algorithms on a large number of networks. The new approach can be used to estimate the construction costs of planned WDSs aimed at addressing population growth or at comparisons of different expansion strategies in growth corridors. WDS Designer (Water Distribution System Designer) Robert Sitzenfrei, Unit of Environmental Engineering, University of Innsbruck, Technikerstr.  Innsbruck, Austria. Tel: ++43  507-6695; Fax: ++43  507-2911 2010 MCRInstaller.exe, version 7.13 or Matlab  Version 7.10.0.499 Matlab ∼16 MB Contact the authors to obtain this software and user manual Free

@highlight A method for automatic generation of water distribution systems is presented.
@highlight For comparison and validation of the approach a real system is used.
@highlight Water distribution systems can be created with different degree of meshing.
@highlight Network characteristics, pipe lengths and costs are comparable to the real system.
@highlight Hydraulic performance is for 75% of the supply area the same as in the real system.
