 Large-scale ecosystem management involves consideration of many factors for informed decision making. The EverVIEW Data Viewer is a cross-platform desktop decision support tool to help decision makers compare simulation model outputs from competing plans for restoring Florida's Greater Everglades. The integration of NetCDF metadata conventions into EverVIEW allows end-users from multiple institutions within and beyond the Everglades restoration community to share information and tools. Our development process incorporates continuous interaction with targeted end-users for increased likelihood of adoption. One of EverVIEW's signature features is side-by-side map panels, which can be used to simultaneously compare species or habitat impacts from alternative restoration plans. Other features include examination of potential restoration plan impacts across multiple geographic or tabular displays, and animation through time. As a result of an iterative, standards-driven approach, EverVIEW is relevant to large-scale planning beyond Florida, and is used in multiple biological planning efforts in the United States. The EverVIEW Data Viewer is freely-available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux operating systems from the Joint Ecosystem Modeling (JEM) website: . Also available on the JEM website are the CERP NetCDF metadata conventions and supporting Java NetCDF libraries. All desktop applications require the Java Runtime Environment. Users wanting to stay informed of software updates and releases can sign up to the email distribution list on the website.

@highlight Decision-support tool for evaluating alternative restoration plans against objectives.
@highlight Development of metadata conventions incentivizes community cooperation and compliance.
@highlight Georeferenced data overlays on side-by-side 3D Earth map panels and table views.
@highlight Multiple displays: spatial, tabular, and ability to animate through seasons and years.
@highlight Location tracking through time of simulation model output for ease of decision making.
