 Aspirin (ASA) is a commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), which exerts its therapeutic effects through inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) isoform 2 (COX-2), while the inhibition of COX-1 by ASA leads to apparent side effects. In the present study, the relationship between COX-1 non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) and aspirin related side effects was investigated. The functional impacts of 37 nsSNPs on aspirin inhibition potency of COX-1 with COX-1/aspirin molecular docking were computationally analyzed, and each SNP was scored based on DOCK Amber score. The data predicted that 22 nsSNPs could reduce COX-1 inhibition, while 15 nsSNPs showed increasing inhibition level in comparison to the regular COX-1 protein. In order to perform a comparing state, the Amber scores for two Arg119 mutants (R119A and R119Q) were also calculated. Moreover, among nsSNP variants, rs117122585 represented the closest Amber score to R119A mutant. A separate docking computation validated the score and represented a new binding position for ASA that acetyl group was located within the distance of 3.86Å from Ser529 OH group. This could predict an associated loss of activity of ASA through this nsSNP variant. Our data represent a computational sub-population pattern for aspirin COX-1 related side effects, and provide basis for further research on COX-1/ASA interaction.

@highlight A computational prospect to aspirin side effects: aspirin and COX-1 interaction analysis based on non-synonymous SNPs
@highlight Modeling of human COX-1 was accomplished by using sheep Ovis
@highlight aries COX-1.
@highlight Docking of flexible aspirin and rigid COX-1 monomer was performed.
@highlight The best binding position of aspirin within COX-1 binding site was theoretically analyzed.
@highlight The impact of COX-1 nsSNPs on aspirin inhibition potency is rated by calculation of Amber scores.
@highlight Expected severity of aspirin side effects in individuals was predicted by their COX-1 nsSNPs Amber scores.
