 Programmed cell death or apoptosis plays a vital physiological role in the development and homeostasis. Any discrepancy in apoptosis may trigger testicular and neurodegenerative diseases, ischemic damage, autoimmune disorders and many types of cancer. Tcte3 (T-complex testis expressed 3) is an accessory component of axonemal and cytoplasmic dynein which expresses predominantly in meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells. It plays an essential role during spermatogenesis; however, to explore its diverse and complex functioning in male germ cell apoptosis, requires further prosecution. Here, 2D-gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry and qRT–PCR analyses were performed to elucidate the differential expression of genes, in both wild-type and homozygous Tcte3-3 mice. We observed an increased expression of Tcte3 in homozygotes as compared to wild-type testes. Perpetually, an increased expression of Anxa5 and Pebp1, while a lower expression of Rsph1 was detected in Tcte3-3 −/− mice. We propose that over-expression of Pebp1 and Anxa5 in Tcte3-3 −/− testes might be due to increased apoptosis. To evaluate this possibility, testes specific microarray data set extracted from NCBI gene ontology omnibus (GEO) was used to cluster the possible co-expression partners of Tcte3. Further functional coherence of compiled candidate genes was monitored computationally by studying the common TFBS overlapped at the regulatory regions. Differential expression of Tcte3-3 and its involvement in apoptosis may provide a basis for the investigation of transcriptional specificities of other Tcte3 paralogs (Tcte3-1 and Tcte3-2). A complete understanding of controlling factors which have implications in regulating tissue-specific Tcte3 expression would provide additional insights into the gene control events. The collective knowledge may prove useful for the development of novel therapeutic regimen and would open new avenues in defining selective roles of Tcte3 in germ cell development.

@highlight Tcte3 (T-complex testis expressed 3) is an accessory component of axonemal and cytoplasmic dynein which expresses predominantly in meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells.
@highlight 2D-gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry and qRT–PCR analyses were performed to elucidate the differential expression of genes, in both wild-type and homozygous Tcte3-3 mice.
@highlight In an effort to identify the possible role of Tcte3 in sperm development, we employed a set of experimental and in-silico based approaches.
@highlight Our findings elucidated several co-expressed partners of Tcte3 including Anxa5 and Pebp1, whose functional coherence may help in better understanding of apoptotic induction.
@highlight A complete understanding of controlling factors which have implications in regulating tissue-specific Tcte3 expression would provide additional insights into the gene control events.
@highlight Our data would contribute to a better understanding of testes-specific transcriptional control of genes involved in apoptosis by addressing the cooperative influence of diverse regulatory partners.
