 Objective This paper describes the University of Michigan’s nine-year experience in developing and using a full-text search engine designed to facilitate information retrieval (IR) from narrative documents stored in electronic health records (EHRs). The system, called the Electronic Medical Record Search Engine (EMERSE), functions similar to Google but is equipped with special functionalities for handling challenges unique to retrieving information from medical text. Materials and methods Key features that distinguish EMERSE from general-purpose search engines are discussed, with an emphasis on functions crucial to  improving medical IR performance and  assuring search quality and results consistency regardless of users’ medical background, stage of training, or level of technical expertise. Results Since its initial deployment, EMERSE has been enthusiastically embraced by clinicians, administrators, and clinical and translational researchers. To date, the system has been used in supporting more than 750 research projects yielding 80 peer-reviewed publications. In several evaluation studies, EMERSE demonstrated very high levels of sensitivity and specificity in addition to greatly improved chart review efficiency. Discussion Increased availability of electronic data in healthcare does not automatically warrant increased availability of information. The success of EMERSE at our institution illustrates that free-text EHR search engines can be a valuable tool to help practitioners and researchers retrieve information from EHRs more effectively and efficiently, enabling critical tasks such as patient case synthesis and research data abstraction. Conclusion EMERSE, available free of charge for academic use, represents a state-of-the-art medical IR tool with proven effectiveness and user acceptance.

@highlight EMERSE is an information retrieval system designed for free-text clinical notes.
@highlight EMERSE supports varied tasks including infection control surveillance and research.
@highlight Sharing and reusing search terms helps to ensure standardized search results.
@highlight Synonym recommendations are important to broaden users’ ability to find concepts.
@highlight EMERSE is available at no cost for academic use.
