 Background Hospital readmission risk prediction remains a motivated area of investigation and operations in light of the hospital readmissions reduction program through CMS. Multiple models of risk have been reported with variable discriminatory performances, and it remains unclear how design factors affect performance. Objectives To study the effects of varying three factors of model development in the prediction of risk based on health record data:  reason for readmission (primary readmission diagnosis);  available data and data types (e.g. visit history, laboratory results, etc);  cohort selection. Methods Regularized regression (LASSO) to generate predictions of readmissions risk using prevalence sampling. Support Vector Machine (SVM) used for comparison in cohort selection testing. Calibration by model refitting to outcome prevalence. Results Predicting readmission risk across multiple reasons for readmission resulted in ROC areas ranging from 0.92 for readmission for congestive heart failure to 0.71 for syncope and 0.68 for all-cause readmission. Visit history and laboratory tests contributed the most predictive value; contributions varied by readmission diagnosis. Cohort definition affected performance for both parametric and nonparametric algorithms. Compared to all patients, limiting the cohort to patients whose index admission and readmission diagnoses matched resulted in a decrease in average ROC from 0.78 to 0.55 (difference in ROC 0.23, p value 0.01). Calibration plots demonstrate good calibration with low mean squared error. Conclusion Targeting reason for readmission in risk prediction impacted discriminatory performance. In general, laboratory data and visit history data contributed the most to prediction; data source contributions varied by reason for readmission. Cohort selection had a large impact on model performance, and these results demonstrate the difficulty of comparing results across different studies of predictive risk modeling.

@highlight Hospitals seek to predict readmissions, but there are many proposed models.
@highlight The study aims to show the impact of varying factors of model design on performance.
@highlight Targeting reason for readmission improves discrimination. ROCs range from 0.68 to 0.92.
@highlight Patient visit and laboratory results contribute most to prediction.
@highlight Performance is highly cohort-dependent. Comparing models across studies may be hard.
