 Objective Healthcare analytics research increasingly involves the construction of predictive models for disease targets across varying patient cohorts using electronic health records (EHRs). To facilitate this process, it is critical to support a pipeline of tasks:  cohort construction,  feature construction,  cross-validation,  feature selection, and  classification. To develop an appropriate model, it is necessary to compare and refine models derived from a diversity of cohorts, patient-specific features, and statistical frameworks. The goal of this work is to develop and evaluate a predictive modeling platform that can be used to simplify and expedite this process for health data. Methods To support this goal, we developed a PARAllel predictive MOdeling (PARAMO) platform which  constructs a dependency graph of tasks from specifications of predictive modeling pipelines,  schedules the tasks in a topological ordering of the graph, and  executes those tasks in parallel. We implemented this platform using Map-Reduce to enable independent tasks to run in parallel in a cluster computing environment. Different task scheduling preferences are also supported. Results We assess the performance of PARAMO on various workloads using three datasets derived from the EHR systems in place at Geisinger Health System and Vanderbilt University Medical Center and an anonymous longitudinal claims database. We demonstrate significant gains in computational efficiency against a standard approach. In particular, PARAMO can build 800 different models on a 300,000 patient data set in 3h in parallel compared to 9days if running sequentially. Conclusion This work demonstrates that an efficient parallel predictive modeling platform can be developed for EHR data. This platform can facilitate large-scale modeling endeavors and speed-up the research workflow and reuse of health information. This platform is only a first step and provides the foundation for our ultimate goal of building analytic pipelines that are specialized for health data researchers.

@highlight A predictive modeling platform that explores many predictive models in parallel.
@highlight The platform constructs a dependency graph of tasks from a set of model specifications.
@highlight The platform schedules the tasks and executes them in parallel using Map-Reduce.
@highlight Performance is assessed using real EHR data sets with up to 300,000 patients.
@highlight Significant performance speedups in model building and evaluation are achieved.
