 Prior research on information systems (IS) shows that users’ attitudes and continuance intentions are associated with their satisfaction with information systems. As such, the increasing amount of investments in clinical information systems (CIS) signifies the importance of understanding CIS end users’ (i.e., clinicians) satisfaction. In this study, we develop a conceptual framework to identify the cognitive determinants of clinicians’ satisfaction formation. The disconfirmation paradigm serves as the core of the framework. The expectations and needs congruency models are the two models of this paradigm, and perceived performance is the basis of the comparisons in the models. The needs and expectations associated with the models are also specified. The survey methodology is adopted in this study to empirically validate the proposed research model. The survey is conducted at a public hospital and results in 112 and 203 valid responses (56% and 98% response rates) from doctors and nurses respectively. The partial least squares (PLS) method is used to analyze the data. The results of the study show that perceived CIS performance is the most influential factor on clinicians’ (i.e., doctors and nurses) satisfaction. Doctors’ expectations congruency is the next significant determinant of their satisfaction. Contrary to most previous findings, nurses’ expectations and expectations congruency do not show a significant effect on their satisfaction. However, the needs congruency is found to significantly affect nurses’ satisfaction.

@highlight A model for clinical users’ satisfaction with clinical information systems (CIS).
@highlight Empirical test of model using survey in a public hospital (112 doctors, 203 nurses).
@highlight Perceived CIS performance is found to be the most influential satisfaction factor.
@highlight The expectations congruency is the next significants satisfaction factor among doctors.
@highlight The second significant satisfaction factor for nurses is found to be the needs congruency.
