 Natural resource allocation is a complex problem that entails difficulties related to the nature of real world problems and to the constraints related to the socio-economical aspects of the problem. In more detail, as the resource becomes scarce relations of trust or communication channels that may exist between the users of a resource become unreliable and should be ignored. In this sense, it is argued that in multi-agent natural resource allocation settings agents are not considered to observe or communicate with each other. The aim of this paper is to study multi-agent learning within this constrained framework. Two novel learning methods are introduced that operate in conjunction with any decentralized multi-agent learning algorithm to provide efficient resource allocations. The proposed methods were applied on a multi-agent simulation model that replicates a natural resource allocation procedure, and extensive experiments were conducted using popular decentralized multi-agent learning algorithms. Experimental results employed statistical figures of merit for assessing the performance of the algorithms with respect to the preservation of the resource and to the utilities of the users. It was revealed that the proposed learning methods improved the performance of all policies under study and provided allocation schemes that both preserved the resource and ensured the survival of the agents, simultaneously. It is thus demonstrated that the proposed learning methods are a substantial improvement, when compared to the direct application of typical learning algorithms to natural resource sharing, and are a viable means of achieving efficient resource allocations.

@highlight A decentralized machine learning method that deals with learning in non-communicating non-observable stochastic games.
@highlight Embeds domain knowledge using a parameterized function that is automatically estimated using stochastic optimization.
@highlight The proposed method was applied on a realistic large scale multiagent simulation model of natural resource allocation.
@highlight Experiments revealed the robustness and superiority of the proposed method, compared to decentralized Q-learning variants.
