 Adopting effective model to access the desired images is essential nowadays with the presence of a huge amount of digital images. The present paper introduces an accurate and rapid model for content based image retrieval process depending on a new matching strategy. The proposed model is composed of four major phases namely: features extraction, dimensionality reduction, ANN classifier and matching strategy. As for the feature extraction phase, it extracts a color and texture features, respectively, called color co-occurrence matrix (CCM) and difference between pixels of scan pattern (DBPSP). However, integrating multiple features can overcome the problems of single feature, but the system works slowly mainly because of the high dimensionality of the feature space. Therefore, the dimensionality reduction technique selects the effective features that jointly have the largest dependency on the target class and minimal redundancy among themselves. Consequently, these features reduce the calculation work and the computation time in the retrieval process. The artificial neural network (ANN) in our proposed model serves as a classifier so that the selected features of query image are the input and its output is one of the multi classes that have the largest similarity to the query image. In addition, the proposed model presents an effective feature matching strategy that depends on the idea of the minimum area between two vectors to compute the similarity value between a query image and the images in the determined class. Finally, the results presented in this paper demonstrate that the proposed model provides accurate retrieval results and achieve improvement in performance with significantly less computation time compared with other models.

@highlight The integration of the color and texture features enhances the retrieval performance.
@highlight The dimensionality reduction technique selects the effective features from original one.
@highlight The artificial neural network in our proposed model serves as a classifier technique.
@highlight The introduced matching strategy depends on the idea of the minimum area between two vectors.
@highlight The proposed model achieves improvement in performance compared with other models.
