 In the last two decades, multiobjective optimization has become main stream and various multiobjective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) have been suggested in the field of evolutionary computing (EC) for solving hard combinatorial and continuous multiobjective optimization problems. Most MOEAs employ single evolutionary operators such as crossover, mutation and selection for population evolution. In this paper, we suggest a multiobjective evolutionary algorithm based on multimethods (MMTD) with dynamic resource allocation for coping with continuous multi-objective optimization problems (MOPs). The suggested algorithm employs two well known population based stochastic algorithms namely MOEA/D and NSGA-II as constituent algorithms for population evolution with a dynamic resource allocation scheme. We have examined the performance of the proposed MMTD on two different MOPs test suites: the widely used ZDT problems and the recently formulated test instances for the special session on MOEAs competition of the 2009 IEEE congress on evolutionary computation (CEC’09). Experimental results obtained by the suggested MMTD are more promising than those of some state-of-the-art MOEAs in terms of the inverted generational distance (IGD)-metric on most test problems.

@highlight The proposed MMTD employs both Pareto dominance-based concept and decomposition strategy in the process of population evolution.
@highlight The proposed algorithm employs these multimethod simultaneously based on dynamic resources allocation procedure.
@highlight The proposed MMTD is flexible and many algorithms or multiple operators in their constituent algorithms can be integrated in their evolutionary process. The impact analysis of different operators in constituent algorithms of the MMTD framework is part of work in this paper.
@highlight Experimental results demonstrate that MMTD has significantly performed better than state-of-the-art MOEAs such as MOEA/D, NSGA-II, AMALGAM, MOPSO: a proposal for multiple objective particle swarm optimization, MOSaDE, DECMOSA-SQP in terms of reducing the inverted generational distance (IGD) metric and time cost on both ZDT test problems [68] and CEC’09 test instances.
