 With the advent of paralleling and implementation of restructuring in the power market, some routine rules and patterns of traditional market should be accomplished in a way different from the past. To this end, the unit commitment (UC) scheduling that has once been aimed at minimizing operating costs in an integrated power market, is metamorphosed to profit based unit commitment (PBUC) by adopting a new schema, in which generation companies (GENCOs) have a common tendency to maximize their own profit. In this paper, a novel optimization technique called imperialist competitive algorithm (ICA) as well as an improved version of this evolutionary algorithm are employed for solving the PBUC problem. Moreover, traditional binary approach of coding of initial solutions is replaced with an improved integer based coding method in order to reduce computational complexity and subsequently ameliorate convergence procedure of the proposed method. Then, a sub-ICA algorithm is proposed to obtain optimal generation power of thermal units. Simulation results validate effectiveness and applicability of the proposed method on two scenarios: (a) a set of unimodal and multimodal standard benchmark functions, (b) two GENCOs consist of 10 and 100 generating units. fuel consumption coefficient of unit (i) fuel consumption coefficient of unit (i) fuel consumption coefficient of unit (i) cost of imperialist (n) cost of country (n) cost function of unit i (/h) cooling constant of unit i (h) ramp down rate of unit i (MW/h) cost of best obtained solution at last iteration of algorithm hot start-up cost of unit i () start-up cost of unit i at time t () total cost of imperialist empire n minimum OFF time of unit i (h) minimum ON time of unit i (h) ramp up rate of unit i (MW/h) a vector that is directed toward the imperialist locations and starts from the previous location of the colony |{v 1}|=1 a vector perpendicular to vector V time duration for which unit i has been OFF at time t (h) time duration for which unit i has been ON at time t (h) colonies’ corporation factor in imperialist’ power a chaotic number between zero and one generated by a specific mapping method assimilation weight factor deviation limit from the original direction prosperity value of empire i forecasted market price for energy at time t ($/MWh) probability of imperialist i

@highlight Employing ICA as well as ICA combined with chaos as main solvers of PBUC.
@highlight Utilizing a novel conformational integer coded algorithm for PUBC problem.
@highlight Proposing a sub-ICA cascaded with main solver to determine optimal power of units.
@highlight Proposing a novel concept to cut down number of integers representing ON/OFF status of units.
@highlight Presenting a heuristic based constraint handling to overcome complexities of PBUC.
