 This paper proposes a new multi-objective framework for optimal placement and sizing of the active power filters (APFs) with satisfactory and acceptable standard levels. total harmonic distortion (THD) of voltage, harmonic transmission line loss (HTLL), motor load loss function (MLLF), and total APFs currents are the four objectives considered in the optimization, while harmonic distortions within standard level, and maximum allowable APF size, are modeled as constraints. The proposed model is one of non-convex optimization problem having a non-linear, mixed-integer nature. Since, a new modified harmony search algorithm (MHSA) is used and followed by a min–max technique in order to obtain the final optimal solution. The harmony search algorithm is a recently developed optimization algorithm, which imitates the music improvisation process. In this process, the Harmonists improvise their instrument pitches searching for the perfect state of harmony. The newly developed method has been applied on the IEEE 18-bus test system and IEEE 30-bus test system by different scenarios and cases to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method. The detailed results of the case studies are presented and thoroughly analyzed. The obtained results illustrate the sufficiency and profitableness of the newly developed method in the placement and sizing of the multiple active power filters, when compared with other methods.

@highlight A new multi-objective method based on THD, HTLL, MLLF, and total APFs currents to eliminate harmonic distortion in the electrical distribution network is taken into account.
@highlight The flexibility of the proposed approach improves by using multiple active power filters (M-APFs) in the PLAS process. Due to existing harmonic pollution at high levels and low rating current of an APF; therefore, an APF cannot improve power quality as acceptable level.
@highlight A new modified optimization algorithm is utilized to overcome the difficulties in solving the mixed-integer non-linear nature of the PLAS problem and determine the optimal final solution.
