 High-accuracy positioning is not only an essential issue for efficient running of high-speed train (HST), but also an important guarantee for the safe operation of high-speed train. Positioning error is zero when the train is passing through a balise. However, positioning error between adjacent balises is going up as the train is moving away from the previous balise. Although average speed method (ASM) is commonly used to compute the position of train in engineering, its positioning error is somewhat large by analyzing the field data. In this paper, we firstly establish a mathematical model for computing position of HST after analyzing wireless message from the train control system. Then, we propose three position computation models based on least square method (LSM), support vector machine (SVM) and least square support vector machine (LSSVM). Finally, the proposed models are trained and tested by the field data collected in Wuhan-Guangzhou high-speed railway. The results show that:  compared with ASM, the three models proposed are capable of reducing positioning error;  compared with ASM, the percentage error of LSM model is reduced by 50.2% in training and 53.9% in testing;  compared with LSM model, the percentage error of SVM model is further reduced by 38.8% in training and 14.3% in testing;  although LSSVM model performs almost the same with SVM model, LSSVM model has advantages over SVM model in terms of running time. We also put forward some online learning methods to update the parameters in the three models and better positioning accuracy is obtained. With the three position computation models we proposed, we can improve the positioning accuracy for HST and potentially reduce the number of balises to achieve the same positioning accuracy.

@highlight We increase the positioning accuracy of high-speed train in a new view of advanced computing methods.
@highlight We formulate a mathematical model based on the analysis of wireless message from train control system.
@highlight Three positioning computation models and their parameter updating methods are developed.
@highlight Although LSSVM-based model performs almost the same as SVM-based model, both of them perform much better than the LSM-based model.
@highlight LSSVM-based model with parameter updating method performs the best among the three models for the online positioning for high-speed trains.
