 In this paper, an intelligent adaptive tracking control system (IATCS) based on the mixed H /H ∞ approach under uncertain plant parameters and external disturbances for achieving high precision performance of a two-axis motion control system is proposed. The two-axis motion control system is an X–Y table driven by two permanent-magnet linear synchronous motors (PMLSMs) servo drives. The proposed control scheme incorporates a mixed H /H ∞ controller, a self-organizing recurrent fuzzy-wavelet-neural-network controller (SORFWNNC) and a robust controller. The combinations of these control methods would insure the stability, robustness, optimality, overcome the uncertainties, and performance properties of the two-axis motion control system. The SORFWNNC is used as the main tracking controller to adaptively estimate an unknown nonlinear dynamic function that includes the lumped parameter uncertainties, external disturbances, cross-coupled interference and frictional force. Moreover, the structure and the parameter learning phases of the SORFWNNC are performed concurrently and online. Furthermore, a robust controller is designed to deal with the uncertainties, including the approximation error, optimal parameter vectors and higher order terms in Taylor series. Besides, the mixed H /H ∞ controller is designed such that the quadratic cost function is minimized and the worst case effect of the unknown nonlinear dynamic function on the tracking error must be attenuated below a desired attenuation level. The mixed H /H ∞ control design has the advantage of both H optimal control performance and H ∞ robust control performance. The sufficient conditions are developed for the adaptive mixed H /H ∞ tracking problem in terms of a pair of coupled algebraic equations instead of coupled nonlinear differential equations. The coupled algebraic equations can be solved analytically. The online adaptive control laws are derived based on Lyapunov theorem and the mixed H /H ∞ tracking performance so that the stability of the proposed IATCS can be guaranteed. Furthermore, the control algorithms are implemented in a DSP-based control computer. From the experimental results, the motions at X-axis and Y-axis are controlled separately, and the dynamic behaviors of the proposed IATCS can achieve favorable tracking performance and are robust to parameter uncertainties.

@highlight An intelligent adaptive tracking control system (IATCS) for X–Y table is proposed.
@highlight The SORFWNNC is used to adaptively estimate lumped parameter uncertainties online.
@highlight Structure and parameter learning of SORFWNN are performed concurrently and online.
@highlight The adaptive laws are derived using Lyapunov stability and H
@highlight /H
@highlight ∞ performance.
@highlight All control algorithms are implemented using DS1104 DSP-based control computer.
