 Linear model is a general forecasting model and moving average technical index (MATI) is one of useful forecasting methods to predict the future stock prices in stock markets. Therefore, individual investors, stock fund managers, and financial analysts attempt to predict price fluctuation in stock markets by either linear model or MATI. From literatures, three major drawbacks are found in many existing forecasting models. First, forecasting rules mined from some AI algorithms, such as neural networks, could be very difficult to understand. Second, statistic assumptions about variables are required for time series to generate forecasting models, which are not easily understandable by stock investors. Third, stock market investors usually make short-term decisions based on recent price fluctuations, i.e., the last one or two periods, but most time series models use only the last period of stock price. In order to overcome these drawbacks, this study proposes a hybrid forecasting model using linear model and MATI to predict stock price trends with the following four steps:  test the lag period of Taiwan Stock Exchange Capitalization Weighted Stock Index (TAIEX) and calculate the last n-period moving average;  use subtractive clustering to partition technical indicator values into linguistic values based on data discretization method objectively;  employ fuzzy inference system (FIS) to build linguistic rules from the linguistic technical indicator dataset, and optimize the FIS parameters by adaptive network; and  refine the proposed model by adaptive expectation models. The proposed model is then verified by root mean squared error (RMSE), and a ten-year period of TAIEX is selected as experiment datasets. The results show that the proposed model is superior to the other forecasting models, namely Chen's model and Yu's model in terms of RMSE.

@highlight The hybrid model uses linear model and moving average technical index to predict stock price trends.
@highlight TAIEX is selected as experiment dataset.
@highlight Proposed model is superior to the listing models.
