 Automatic fall detection is a major issue in the health care of elderly people. In this task the ability to discriminate in real time between falls and normal daily activities is crucial. Several methods already exist to perform this task, but approaches able to provide explicit formalized knowledge and high classification accuracy have not yet been developed and would be highly desirable. To achieve this aim, this paper proposes an innovative and complete approach to fall detection based both on the automatic extraction of knowledge expressed as a set of IF-THEN rules from a database of fall recordings, and on its use in a mobile health monitoring system. Whenever a fall is detected by this latter, the system can take immediate actions, e.g. alerting medical personnel. Our method can easily overcome the limitations of other approaches to fall detection. In fact, thanks to the knowledge gathering, it overcomes both the difficulty faced by a human being dealing with many parameters and trying to find out which are the most suitable, and also the need to apply a laborious trial-and-error procedure to find the values of the related thresholds. In addition, in our approach the extracted knowledge is processed in real time by a reasoner embedded in a mobile device, without any need for connection to a remote server. This proposed approach has been compared against four other classifiers on a database of falls simulated by volunteers, and its discrimination ability has been shown to be higher with an average accuracy of 91.88%. We have also carried out a very preliminary experimental phase. The best set of rules found by using the previous database has allowed us to achieve satisfactory performance in these experiments as well. Namely, on these real-world falls the obtained results in terms of accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity are of about 92%, 86%, and 96%, respectively.

@highlight A cheap and portable approach to detect fall detection in real time is proposed.
@highlight Acceleration data are gathered by a wearable sensor and sent to a mobile device.
@highlight A set of IF-THEN rules is automatically extracted from acceleration data.
@highlight This set of rules can be used in our real-time mobile monitoring system.
@highlight If occurrence of a fall is detected by a rule, an alarm is automatically produced.
