 In this paper, speed control of Brushless DC motor using Bat algorithm optimized online Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System is presented. Learning parameters of the online ANFIS controller, i.e., Learning Rate (η), Forgetting Factor (λ) and Steepest Descent Momentum Constant (α) are optimized for different operating conditions of Brushless DC motor using Genetic Algorithm, Particle Swarm Optimization, and Bat algorithm. In addition, tuning of the gains of the Proportional Integral Derivative (PID), Fuzzy PID, and Adaptive Fuzzy Logic Controller is optimized using Genetic Algorithm, Particle Swarm Optimization and Bat Algorithm. Time domain specification of the speed response such as rise time, peak overshoot, undershoot, recovery time, settling time and steady state error is obtained and compared for the considered controllers. Also, performance indices such as Root Mean Squared Error, Integral of Absolute Error, Integral of Time Multiplied Absolute Error and Integral of Squared Error are evaluated and compared for the above controllers. In order to validate the effectiveness of the proposed controller, simulation is performed under constant load condition, varying load condition and varying set speed conditions of the Brushless DC motor. The real time experimental verification of the proposed controller is verified using an advanced DSP processor. The simulation and experimental results confirm that bat algorithm optimized online ANFIS controller outperforms the other controllers under all considered operating conditions.

@highlight Bat algorithm optimized online ANFIS based speed controller presented for Brushless DC motor.
@highlight The speed response of Brushless DC motor is analyzed for different operating conditions.
@highlight The proposed controller eliminates the uncertainty problem due to load disturbance and set speed variations.
@highlight The proposed controller enhances the time domain specifications and performance indices in all operating conditions.
