 In this paper, we investigate a compound of the exam timetabling problems which consists of assigning a set of independent exams to a certain number of classrooms. We can define the exam timetabling problem as the scheduling of exams to time slots in first stage and at a second stage, the assignment of a set of exams extracted from one time slot to some available classrooms. Even though the formulation of this problem looks simple as it contains only two sets of constraints including only binary variables, we show that it belongs to the class of NP hard problems by reduction from the Numerical Matching with Target Sum problems (NMTS). In order to reduce the size of this problem and make it efficiently solvable either by exact method or heuristic approaches, a theorem is rigorously demonstrated and a reduction procedure inspired from the dominance criterion is developed. The two methods contribute in the search for a feasible solution by reducing the size of the original problem without affecting the feasibility. Since the reduction procedures do not usually assign all exams to classrooms, we propose a Variable Neighbourhood Search (VNS) algorithm in order to obtain a good quality complete solution. The objective of VNS algorithm is to reduce the total classroom capacity assigned to exams. A numerical result concerning the exam of the main session of the first semester of the academic year 2009–2010 of the Faculty of Economics and Management Sciences of Sfax shows the good performance of our approach compared with lower bound defined as the sum of the total capacity of all assigned classrooms and the total size of the remaining exams after reduction.

@highlight This paper treats essentially an important compound of the exam timetabling.
@highlight The NP hardness proof of the problem is deduced by reduction from the numerical matching with target sum problems.
@highlight Two reduction procedures are proposed in order to reduce the size of the problem.
@highlight To finalize the assignment procedure, we have used the VNS metaheuristic in order to obtain a good quality complete solution.
