 A more scientific decision making process for radio frequency identification (RFID) technology selection is important to increase success rate of RFID technology application. RFID technology selection can be formulated as a kind of group decision making (GDM) problem with intuitionistic fuzzy preference relations (IFPRs). This paper develops a novel method for solving such problems. First, A technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution (TOPSIS) based method is presented to rank intuitionistic fuzzy values (IFVs). To achieve higher group consensus as well as possible, we construct an intuitionistic fuzzy linear programming model to derive experts’ weights. Depending on the construction of membership and non-membership functions, the constructed intuitionistic fuzzy linear programming model is solved by three kinds of approaches: optimistic approach, pessimistic approach and mixed approach. Then to derive the ranking order of alternatives from the collective IFPR, we extend quantifier guided non-dominance degree (QGNDD) and quantifier guided dominance degree (QGDD) to intuitionistic fuzzy environment. A new two-phase ranking approach is designed to generate the ordering of alternatives based on QGNDD and QGDD. Thereby, the corresponding method is proposed for the GDM problems with IFPRs. Some generalizations on the constructed intuitionistic fuzzy linear programming model are further discussed. At length, the validity of the proposed method is illustrated with a real-world RFID technology selection example.

@highlight A new ranking method of intuitionistic fuzzy values (IFVs) is presented according to the closeness degrees.
@highlight An intuitionistic fuzzy linear programming model is established to derive the weights of experts objectively.
@highlight Three kinds of approaches are proposed to solve the intuitionistic fuzzy linear programming model.
@highlight A two-phase ranking approach is designed to generate the ordering of alternatives based on quantifier guided non-dominance degree and quantifier guided dominance degree.
@highlight A novel method for group decision making with intuitionistic fuzzy preference relations is proposed and applied to radio frequency identification (RFID) technology selection.
