 Monitoring human energy expenditure (EE) is important in many health and sports applications, since the energy expenditure directly reflects the intensity of physical activity. The actual energy expenditure is unpractical to measure; therefore, it is often estimated from the physical activity measured with accelerometers and other sensors. Previous studies have demonstrated that using a person's activity as the context in which the EE is estimated, and using multiple sensors, improves the estimation. In this study, we go a step further by proposing a context-based reasoning method that uses multiple contexts provided by multiple sensors. The proposed Multiple Contexts Ensemble (MCE) approach first extracts multiple features from the sensor data. Each feature is used as a context for which multiple regression models are built using the remaining features as training data: for each value of the context feature, a regression model is trained on a subset of the dataset with that value. When evaluating a data sample, the models corresponding to the context (feature) values in the evaluated sample are assembled into an ensemble of regression models that estimates the EE of the user. Experiments showed that the MCE method outperforms (in terms of lower root means squared error and lower mean absolute error): (i) five single-regression approaches (linear and non-linear); (ii) two ensemble approaches: Bagging and Random subspace; (iii) an approach that uses artificial neural networks trained on accelerometer-data only; and (iv) BodyMedia (a state-of-the-art commercial EE-estimation device).

@highlight Multiple Contexts Ensemble (MCE) method to estimate the human energy expenditure (EE).
@highlight MCE outperforms conventional regression approaches, ensembles and BodyMedia EE device.
@highlight MCE provides better accuracy than using only the activity of the user as the context.
@highlight MCE is independent of the machine learning algorithm, thus any algorithm can be used.
