 Five AI models are presented to model the dynamic nonlinear behavior of Buckling-Restrained Braces (BRBs). The AI techniques utilized in the models are: Time-Delayed Neural Networks (TDNN), Nonlinear Auto-Regressive eXogenous (NARX) neural networks, Gaussian-Mixture Models Regression (GMMR), Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference Systems (ANFIS) and Polynomial Classifier Regression (PCR). The models are developed using time-delayed brace displacements inputs and brace force outputs to predict updated brace forces during load reversals. The training and testing of the AI models are performed using experimental data from BRB specimens tested at the Pacific Earthquake Engineering Research (PEER) Center. The training stage for every method makes use of the experimental data from one specimen. In order to assess the models’ learning and generalization capabilities, three sets of experimental data for different specimens are used. To arrive at an optimized architecture that best models the phenomenon, the model performance with different parameters is evaluated. The brace force predicted by the proposed model shows excellent resemblance to the experimental results for the training sample, for all techniques. The predicted behavior of the testing samples shows noticeable accuracy and further demonstrates the generalization and prediction capability of the proposed modeling techniques. The various techniques are compared on the basis of selected performance criteria. It is found that the performance of two AI techniques standout among the others: the NARX and the PCR. Although the NARX demonstrates a slight advantage in the prediction accuracy over the PCR, the latter is far more superior in terms of computational efficiency. Thus, the PCR would be recommended for scenarios where online training is needed. The BRB design and performance investigation processes can be facilitated by the developed modeling techniques thus minimizing the need for, and extent of, experimental testing.

@highlight Nonlinear modeling of Buckling-Restrained Braces using 5 AI techniques was presented.
@highlight Modeling is done based on experimental data obtained from BRB specimens.
@highlight The AI models considered are TDNN, NARX, GMMR, ANFIS and PCR.
@highlight NARX and PCR yielded the best prediction results in terms of objective measures.
@highlight PCR is found to be far superior to all methods in terms of computational complexity.
