 Network reconfiguration is the process of changing the topology of distribution systems by altering the open/closed status of switches. Because there are many candidate-switching combinations in the distribution system, network reconfiguration is a complicated combinatorial, non-differentiable constrained optimization problem. In addition, the radiality constraint typically increases the intricacy of the problem. In this paper, to avoid create infeasible configuration, a new codification is proposed. The proposed codification is computationally efficient and guarantees to generate only feasible radial topologies all times. Also, in this paper, a modified heuristic approach for optimal reconfiguration in radial distribution systems is presented. Additionally, in order to economize voltage profile improvement, a number of new formulas have been represented. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated on balanced and unbalanced test distribution systems. the cost benefit of improving the voltage profiles (€) power factor of the ith load the cost of power (€/kWh) cost of power losses (€/kW) cost of the energy losses (€/kWh) discarded tie lines vector the total number of branches current in the ith branch (pu) maximum current limit of the ith branch (pu) single-phase current of the ith load (A) losses cost (€) the total number of node the number of tie lines node-power (ΩMW) active power consumption of the ith load (kW) active power losses flowing on the line l (kW) active power trough line k (kW) reactive power trough line k (kVAR) resistance of the lth branch (Ω) the number of links of a DNG the switching cost (€) study period (h) voltage of the sending end node of the ith branch (pu) maximum specified system node voltage (pu) minimum specified system node voltage (pu) single-phase voltage of the ith load (V) energy losses (kWh) radial constraint for the nth topology profit rat coefficient of variation

@highlight A modified heuristic approach and novel codification for distribution system reconfiguration is proposed.
@highlight Voltage profile improvement of network is economized.
@highlight Constant impedance, constant power and constant current loads are considered.
@highlight The proposed method has been tested on balanced and unbalanced test distribution networks.
