 Nowadays, High Performance Computing (HPC) systems commonly used in bioinformatics, such as genome sequencing, incorporate multi-processor architectures. Typically, most bioinformatics applications are multi-threaded and dominated by memory-intensive operations, which are not designed to take full advantage of these HPC capabilities. Therefore, the application end-user is responsible for optimizing the application performance and improving scalability with various performance engineering concepts. Additionally, most of the HPC systems are operated in a multi-user (or multi-job) environment; thus, Quality of Service (QoS) methods are essential for balancing between application performance, scalability and system utilization. We propose a QoS workflow that optimizes the balancing ratio between parallel efficiency and system utilization. Accordingly, our proposed optimization workflow will advise the end user of a selection criteria to apply toward resources and options for a given application and HPC system architecture. For example, the BWA-MEM algorithm is a popular and modern algorithm for aligning human genome sequences. We conducted various case studies on BWA-MEM using our optimization workflow, and as a result compared to a state-of-the-art baseline, the application performance is improved up to 67%, scalability extended up to 200%, parallel efficiency improved up to 39% and overall system utilization increased up to 38%.

@highlight Implementation of hybrid BWA-MEM improve the performance upto 200%.
@highlight This hybrid model is named as data-parallel with concurrent Parallelization.
@highlight Thread parallelization extended into data-parallelization with concurrent execution of BWA-MEM applications.
@highlight The proposed novel approach measured the performance in terms of application execution time, scalability, parallel efficiency and system utilization (QoS).
@highlight The experiments are conducted across different architectures and demonstrated the performance is super linear compared to traditional approach.
