 Objective Cancer patients and survivors are assuming active roles in decision-making and digital patient support tools are widely used to facilitate patient engagement. As part of Cancer Information Service Research Consortium's randomized controlled trials focused on the efficacy of eHealth interventions to promote informed treatment decision-making for newly diagnosed prostate and breast cancer patients, and post-treatment breast cancer, we conducted a rigorous process evaluation to examine the actual use of and perceived benefits of two complementary communication channels — print and eHealth interventions. Methods The three Virtual Cancer Information Service (V-CIS) interventions were developed through a rigorous developmental process, guided by self-regulatory theory, informed decision-making frameworks, and health communications best practices. Control arm participants received NCI print materials; experimental arm participants received the additional V-CIS patient support tool. Actual usage data from the web-based V-CIS was also obtained and reported. Results Print materials were highly used by all groups. About 60% of the experimental group reported using the V-CIS. Those who did use the V-CIS rated it highly on improvements in knowledge, patient-provider communication and decision-making. Conclusion The findings show that how patients actually use eHealth interventions either singularly or within the context of other communication channels is complex. Practice implications Integrating rigorous best practices and theoretical foundations is essential and multiple communication approaches should be considered to support patient preferences.

@highlight This manuscript reflects the multi-disciplinary approach to develop theory-driven, evidence-based web-based interventions highlights how cancer patients value both print and web-based interventions.
@highlight This original research includes a national sample of cancer patients recruited through a variety of organizations under IRB approval.
@highlight These findings the need for multiple communication channels and approaches.
