 Background Postpartum depression (PPD) is a maternal mental health problem that affects women from all regions of the world. Unfortunately, even in developed countries, half of the cases go undetected and, consequently, untreated. Individuals from low and middle income countries trend toward underutilization of mental health services, partly due to the limited number of available psychological resources. The primary aims of this pilot randomized controlled trial were to adapt to the Internet using the Mothers and Babies Course/Curso Mamás y Bebés, a prevention of PPD intervention, to describe the characteristics of the pregnant women who engaged in the intervention site, and to obtain preliminary data on the efficacy of the Internet intervention to reduce the risk of PPD. Methods Pregnant women, 18years or older who were interested in using the site for themselves were recruited and randomly assigned to a fully-automated self-help Internet intervention or to an information-only control condition. Randomized participants were invited to complete monthly depression assessments up to six months postpartum. To examine the prevention effects of the Internet intervention, pregnant women who did not meet current criteria for a major depressive episode, who engaged with the study website, and who provided depression data during the postpartum follow-up period were included in the study analyses. Results Participants were 111 predominantly Spanish-speaking (82.9%) and Latino/Hispanic (71.3%) pregnant women residing in 23 countries worldwide. The effect of the prevention intervention condition failed to reach significance at the a priori alpha-level. However, the observed coefficient trended in the hypothesized direction (b =−0.514, χ2 =3.43, p =.061; HR=0.598). The benefits of receiving the e-MB Internet intervention were greater for pregnant women reporting high (vs. low) levels of prenatal depression symptoms (b =−0.605, χ2 =5.20, p =.023). Conclusions This study provides preliminary evidence that Internet interventions are a promising method toward expanding the reach of psychological resources to perinatal women at-risk for PPD.

@highlight Limited data exist on the efficacy of fully-automated self-help Internet interventions for perinatal women.
@highlight This pilot study presents preliminary data on the efficacy of a prevention of postpartum depression Internet trial.
@highlight The study was successful at recruiting predominantly Spanish-speaking women from Latin America.
@highlight This study demonstrates that there is a global interest and need for Internet interventions for perinatal women.
