 The aim of this pilot study was to explore the effects of an early and customized CBT intervention, mainly delivered via internet, for adolescents with coexisting recurrent pain and emotional distress (low mood, worry, and/or distress). The intervention was based on a transdiagnostic approach, to concurrently target pain and emotional distress. A single case experimental design (SCED) was employed with six participants, 17–21years old, who were recruited via school health care professionals at the student health care team at an upper secondary school in a small town in Sweden. The intervention consisted of 5–9 modules of CBT, delivered via internet in combination with personal contacts and face to face sessions. The content and length of the program was customized depending on needs. The effects of the program were evaluated based on self-report inventories, which the participants filled out before and after the intervention and at a six month follow-up. They did also fill out a diary where they rated symptoms on a daily basis. The results were promising, at least when considering changes during the intervention as well as pre- and posttest ratings. However, the results were more modest when calculating the reliable change index (RCI), and most of the treatment effects were not sustained at the follow-up assessment, which raises questions about the durability of the effects. Taken together, this study indicates that this type of program is promising as an early intervention for adolescents with pain and concurrent emotional distress, although the outcomes need to be explored further, especially in terms of long-term effects.

@highlight I-CBT has not been used as an early intervention for adolescents with coexisting pain and emotional distress
@highlight The aim of this pilot study was to explore the effects of early I-CBT for adolescents with pain and emotional distress
@highlight The intervention consisted of 5-9 modules of customized I-CBT combined with personal support
@highlight The effects were quite modest and larger studies are needed to further explore the outcomes
