 Piecewise linear (G01-based) tool paths generated by CAM systems lack and continuity. The discontinuity causes vibration and unnecessary hesitation during machining. To ensure efficient high-speed machining, a method to improve the continuity of the tool paths is required, such as B-spline fitting that approximates G01 paths with B-spline curves. Conventional B-spline fitting approaches cannot be directly used for tool path B-spline fitting, because they have shortages such as numerical instability, lack of chord error constraint, and lack of assurance of a usable result. Progressive and Iterative Approximation for Least Squares (LSPIA) is an efficient method for data fitting that solves the numerical instability problem. However, it does not consider chord errors and needs more work to ensure ironclad results for commercial applications. In this paper, we use LSPIA method incorporating Energy term (ELSPIA) to avoid the numerical instability, and lower chord errors by using stretching energy term. We implement several algorithm improvements, including  an improved technique for initial control point determination over Dominant Point Method,  an algorithm that updates foot point parameters as needed,  analysis of the degrees of freedom of control points to insert new control points only when needed,  chord error refinement using a similar ELSPIA method with the above enhancements. The proposed approach can generate a shape-preserving B-spline curve. Experiments with data analysis and machining tests are presented for verification of quality and efficiency. Comparisons with other known solutions are included to evaluate the worthiness of the proposed solution.

@highlight The presented B-spline tool path fitting method is chord-error conforming.
@highlight It is numerically stable and hence industrial-strength.
@highlight The proposed ELSPIA algorithm incorporates stretching energy into LSPIA algorithm.
@highlight Includes actual machining experiments to validate the worthiness.
