 Silicon carbide fibre in silicon carbide matrix composites are a promising cladding for use in accident tolerant fuels in current light water reactor designs . However as they are a radically different material from current metal clads current thermomechanical simulation methods struggle to accurately predict their behaviour especially regarding the potential development of cracks . Thus a new peridynamic model for SiC SiC cladding has been developed in the Abaqus finite element code . The material model was isotropic and considers matrix cracking and fibre pull out . The thermal expansion swelling and the degradation of the thermal conductivity are modelled under typical LWR irradiation conditions . The swelling on the outer surface is predicted to be greater than the inner surface due to the lower irradiation temperature causing a tensile stress on the inside of the cladding tension being more challenging for a ceramic than a metal . This stress increases during the decrease in power at the start of a typical pressurised water reactor refuelling outage and causes microcracking of the matrix on the cladding inner surface . In models without fibres cracks would propagate through the cladding . If fibres are modelled matrix cracking will extend to a depth of around 20 through the cladding from the inner surface which is unlikely to be an acceptable design . If an inner monolith of SiC is additionally modelled cracking propagates through the monolith and acts as a stress raiser for matrix cracking in the composite and therefore does not constitute a design improvement . If an outer SiC monolith is modelled fibre pull out strain on the inner surface of the cladding was increased by just under 70 . No cracks are predicted in an outer monolith which may therefore remain gas tight and thus a more suitable design . These predictions are consistent with experimental findings .

@highlight Irradiation of accident tolerant SiC SiC cladding is modelled using peridynamics.
@highlight Due to swelling a tensile stress is predicted on the inside of the cladding.
@highlight In the absence of a monolith micro cracking extends to 20 from the inner surface.
@highlight Cracks in an inner monolith are a stress raiser in the composite.
@highlight No cracks are predicted in an outer monolith hence its the most promising design.
