 Zinc selenide thin films were deposited on non conducting glass substrates at 80C for 2.0h in an alkaline medium using photo assisted chemical bath deposition . The films were annealed in air at 300C for different time intervals ranging from 0 to 4.0h . The annealing time had a significant effect on the structure morphology and optical properties of the deposited films . The glancing incidence X ray diffraction analysis confirmed polycrystalline films with a hexagonal wurtzite structure . The estimated crystallite size decreased with increasing annealing time . The as deposited sample showed secondary peaks in the GIXRD and Raman spectroscopy due to unreacted selenium which disappeared after annealing . Changes in surface morphology with increasing annealing time were observed using scanning electron microscopy . The energy dispersive X ray spectrometer results showed an increase in zinc with a decrease in selenium for longer annealing times . The atomic force microscopy showed that the estimated films surface roughness decreased during annealing . Blue shifts in the absorption spectra and an increase in the energy bandgaps were observed with an increase in annealing time together with an increase in optical transmittance . Photoluminescence spectroscopy revealed blue green and red emission peaks which were all attributed to the intrinsic defects within the ZnSe . The estimated decay lifetime showed that the average decay lifetime of the films increased with annealing time . Annealing for 3.0h was found to be the optimum based on the response of the investigated properties .

@highlight ZnSe thin films were deposited by photo assisted chemical bath method on glass slides.
@highlight The deposition was done at 80C for 2h and annealed at 300C from 0.5 to 4h.
@highlight The XRD shows wurtzite structure. The crystallite sizes decreased with increased annealing time.
@highlight The SEM shows nanoplates and the presence of Zn and Se were confirmed by EDS.
@highlight Photoluminescence spectroscopy revealed blue green and red emission peaks.
