 Electron Backscatter Diffraction was used to investigate the grain boundary character and triple junction distributions as well as the microtexture on drawn pure and potassium doped tungsten wires . With an approximate diameter of 150m pure W wires were annealed at 1300 1600 and 1900C whereas K doped material was annealed at 1300 1600 and 2100C . The annealing was performed under hydrogen atmosphere for 30min . Both longitudinal and transversal sections were analyzed to assess anisotropic features . Up to 1600C all conditions presented a strong 110 fiber texture parallel to the drawing axis . With increasing annealing temperature the pure W material developed a more heterogeneous fiber texture while for the K doped material it remained homogeneous . Orientation correlation function analysis suggested sub grain coarsening as the recrystallization mechanism while grain boundary density and grain boundary character distribution exhibited anisotropic behavior as well as the triple junction distribution network . On the other hand the coincidence site lattices distribution did not present any anisotropy and followed the empirical law of the inverse cubic root of value . For all conditions the most abundant CSL boundaries were 3 9 11 17b 19a 27a and 33a . Based on the statistics of the triple junction types and their resistance to intergranular cracking it was revealed that increasing the annealing temperature might play a role in crack deflection since the resistance to intergranular crack growth is increased in the transversal section and reduced in the longitudinal section . This anisotropic behavior is preserved up to a higher annealing temperature in the K doped material .

@highlight EBSD characterization is performed on pure and K doped W fibers.
@highlight Strong 110 DA fiber texture is present regardless the annealing temperature.
@highlight The most abundant low CSL boundaries are identified.
@highlight Good agreement with the empirical law of the inverse cubic root of value was found.
@highlight Anisotropy of triple junctions distribution is observed.
