 A feasibility study of the cold spray deposition process of 304L stainless steel on 304 stainless steel substrates as a mitigation method for chloride induced stress corrosion cracking has been investigated under various substrate conditions . The study is aimed at the application of this technology to mitigate CISCC that may potentially occur in or near the fusion welded regions of stainless steel canisters in Dry Cask Storage System for used nuclear fuels . Spherical gas atomized 304L stainless steel powder in the size range of 25m44m was used as feedstock powder for the cold spray process . The powder was deposited on 304 substrates with various surface conditions as polished oxidized cold rolled and plates with prototypical CISCC . The effects of cold spray parameters on quality of cold spray coatings were investigated . Thickness porosity and phases in the as deposited materials were evaluated using scanning electron microscopy and X ray diffraction and correlated with microhardness and adhesion strength measured via micro indentation and ASTM C633 pulling test respectively . XRD analysis of the coatings was also conducted to examine the effects of cold spray condition on residual stress state in the coating . Detailed cross sectional examination of coating substrate interfaces was performed with transmission electron microscopy equipped with energy dispersive spectroscopy . Dense and continuous coatings with good adhesion strength high hardness and high degree of compressive stress were produced for the various substrate conditions by adjusting cold spray parameters . The results demonstrate that a cold sprayed stainless steel coating is a viable option to provide a physical barrier against CISCC in fusion weld regions of stainless steel in corrosive chloride salt bearing environments .

@highlight Cold spray stainless steel coatings were developed as a CISCC mitigation approach for used fuel canister systems.
@highlight Beneficial compressive residual stresses and high adhesion cohesion strength of cold spray coatings were achieved.
@highlight Self cleaning effect during cold spray process disrupted oxide scale on the substrate enabling excellent adhesion.
@highlight High quality stainless steel coatings were produced on sensitized substrates with prototypical CISCCs.
