 A p type transition metal oxide copper oxide was modified with nitrogen doped carbon quantum dots to fabricate an effective CuO NCQDs solar driven photo catalyst . The fabrication of single phase monoclinic CuO was confirmed by XRD . SEM images showed the leaf like morphology for CuO which appeared rough and densely packed in CuO NCQDs composites . TEM images of CuO NCQDs shows slightly distorted nano leaves with NCQDs dispersed on them . HRTEM of CuO NCQDs shows fringes with characteristic planes confirming that the addition of NCQDs has not distorted the crystal structure of CuO . SAED of CuO NCQDs further confirms the crystalline nature of the as synthesized composite photo catalyst by exhibiting bright diffraction rings . These results further supported the XRD data . EDS spectra of NCQDs and CuO NCQDs confirm the formation of pure nitrogen doped carbon quantum dots and Cu N C and O atoms confirming that NCQDs are well incorporated on CuO Nano leaves . UVVis spectra showed a slight increase of band gap energies due to quantum confinement effects . PL spectra exhibited decreased photoluminescence intensity indicating suppression of recombination rate . The developed photocatalyst was applied for the degradation of harmful dye methyl orange . The composite catalyst showed superior degradation efficiency as compared to pure CuO nano leaves attributed to enhanced visible light absorption and better charge separation ability due to introduction of NCQDs .

@highlight NCQDs based highly solar efficient photo catalyst is fabricated by facile route of wet chemical method.
@highlight The surface roughness of CuO nano leaves is observed due to NCQDs which provide more active sites.
@highlight The quantum confinement effects of NCQDs tuned the bandgap of the CuO nanostructures.
@highlight NCQDs modified photo catalyst highly quenched photoluminescence indicating efficient charge separation.
@highlight This enhanced photocatalytic activity of CuO NCQDs is attributed to the availability of active sites and charge separation.
