 Thermal conductivity and melting temperature of nuclear fuel are essential for analysing its performance under irradiation since they determine the fuel temperature profile and the melting safety margin respectively . A starting literature review of data and correlations revealed that most models implemented in state of the art fuel performance codes describe the evolution of thermal conductivity and melting temperature of Light Water Reactor MOX fuels in limited ranges of operation and without considering the complete set of fundamental dependencies . Since innovative Generation IV nuclear reactor concepts employ MOX fuel to be irradiated in Fast Reactor conditions codes need to be extended and validated for application to design and safety analyses on fast reactor MOX fuel . The aim of this work is to overcome the current modelling and code limitations providing fuel performance codes with suitable correlations to describe the evolution under irradiation of fast reactor MOX fuel thermal conductivity and melting temperature . The new correlations have been obtained by a statistically assessed fit of the most recent and reliable experimental data . The resulting laws are grounded on a physical basis and account for a wider set of effects on MOX thermal properties providing clear ranges of applicability for each parameter considered . As a first test series the new correlations have been implemented in the TRANSURANUS fuel performance code compared to state of the art correlations and assessed against integral data from the HEDL P 19 fast reactor irradiation experiment . The integral validation provides promising results pointing out a satisfactory agreement with the experimental data meaning that the new models can be efficiently applied in engineering fuel performance codes .

@highlight Derivation of original and comprehensive correlations for thermal conductivity and melting temperature of uranium plutonium mixed oxide MOX nuclear fuel.
@highlight Comparison and validation of the correlations against experimental measurements on fast reactor MOX.
@highlight Simulation of fast reactor irradiation experiment with the TRANSURANUS fuel performance code.
@highlight Integral validation of the new correlations against experimental power to melt data from pins in fast start up irradiation conditions.
@highlight Demonstration of the efficient applicability of the correlations in engineering fuel performance codes.
