 We compare two full field approaches a crystal plasticity finite element method and crystal plasticity fast Fourier transform based method for a specific crystal plasticity law introduced for neutron irradiated austenitic stainless steel SA304L currently used in nuclear reactor vessel internals . This particular law is employed to identify and quantify possible advantages and drawbacks of the two approaches when used in the large scale simulations to predict the effect of irradiation damage in stainless steel microstructures . A comparison is performed in a polycrystalline context for different periodic Voronoi microstructures deformed under tension . Special emphasis is put on studying the performance of the two approaches in terms of mesh convergence analysis using aggregate models with different spatial discretizations . In the CP FEM approach the performance of linear as well as quadratic tetrahedral meshes is investigated . A similar performance between the CP FEM and CP FFT methods is demonstrated in a smaller 2 grain aggregate . However a slower mesh convergence is observed for the CP FEM method when comparing tensile responses of a larger 100 grain polycrystal . A drop in the convergence rate is much more pronounced on linear than on quadratic tetrahedral meshes . As a consequence largest grain boundary stresses are shown to be overestimated with the linear mesh CP FEM approach thus raising a concern of possible over conservatism employed in the CP FEM prediction of crack initiation in irradiated stainless steels . On the contrary the mesh convergence of the CP FFT approach is found to be practically independent of the applied macroscopic strain and also aggregate size . Therefore for such steels the CP FFT approach seems to be better justified .

@highlight CP FEM and CP FFT are compared when employed to neutron irradiated stainless steel
@highlight Comparison is performed for periodic Voronoi microstructures deformed under tension
@highlight Linear quadratic tetrahedral elements are used in CP FEM and regular grid in CP FFT
@highlight Spatial discretization convergence analysis is applied on 2 and 100 grain models
@highlight CP FFT is found superior to CP FEM in larger and plastically strained aggregates
