 The mechanical properties of thin foils to be used as a targets window in a high intensity accelerator require non standard characterization techniques . In the current research the innovative small punch test technique had been used to map and determine the mechanical properties of SS 316L foil irradiated by high intensity of proton beams . The SPT results and the energy to fracture are presented and the fracture modes were determined by scanning electron microscopy observations and electron backscatter diffraction analysis . The irradiated samples were exposed to 3.6MeV proton bombardment at 250A and 290A for 42 and 5h respectively . The major damage as was reflected by significant ductility and energy to fracture losses was associated with the irradiated zones which experienced the highest temperature and protons flux . Based on the observed evidence of deformation twins and dense dislocation bands as well as the EBSD analysis it was revealed that the limited deformation in the irradiated samples is related mainly to radiation damage and probably a minor effect of hydrogen embrittlement phenomenon . The limited ductility was explained by the accumulation of radiation damage that most probably hinder dislocations mobility through crystallographic glide . Nevertheless these alternative deformation mechanisms involve nucleation and propagation of dislocation slip bands and intra grain fragmentation . The DSBs intersections were proposed as the source for stress localization which initiates crack formation which was followed by crack propagation through slip bands . This cracking mechanism was exhibited by a unique saw tooth fracture mode .

@highlight SPT was proved as a highly sensitive tool to assess radiation damage RD effects.
@highlight The proton damage mechanism is related only to radiation and not to trapped hydrogen embrittlement.
@highlight A unique saw tooth fracture mode was found in the irradiated sample.
@highlight Accumulation of proton damage accommodate alternative deformation mechanisms.
