 The QUENCH LOCA bundle test series was launched to investigate the influence of the secondary hydriding phenomena on the applicability of the cladding embrittlement criteria . Seven out of pile bundle tests with different zirconium alloy based cladding materials were performed according to a temperature time scenario typical for a LBLOCA in German PWRs . Each bundle contained 21 electrically heated rods with length of about 2m . For two tests pre hydrided claddings were used . The profilometry measurements performed over whole length of the post test claddings showed formation of not only main ballooning area but also additional two or three ballooning regions . Cladding wall thinning from 725 to 350m due to ballooning was observed at the burst side along 50mm below and above burst opening . Oxide layer formed after the burst at the inner cladding surface around the burst opening with a thickness of about 15m decreasing to 3mat a distance of about 20mm from the burst opening . Hydrogen enrichments were observed for rods having been exposed to peak cladding temperatures of more than 1200K . The average maximal hydrogen concentration inside the hydrogen bands was less than 1000 wppm and the local absolute maximal hydrogen concentration in these regions was less than 1800 wppm . A part of the hydrogen absorbed inside the claddings formed the hydrides with m sizes which are distributed in the matrix intra as well inter granular . During quenching following the high temperature test stages no fragmentation of claddings was observed . Tensile tests performed at room temperature after bundle tests evidenced fracture at concentrated zirconium hydride regions for several rods with local hydrogen concentrations 1500 wppm and more . Claddings with lower hydrogen concentrations fractured due to stress concentration at burst opening edges . Other tensile tested claddings failed after necking far away from burst .

@highlight Formation of several non symmetrical ballooning regions.
@highlight Coolant channel blockage less than 35 .
@highlight Burst temperatures between 1120 and 1140K depending on the cladding material.
@highlight Burst temperature of pre hydrided claddings is 30K lower than for fresh claddings.
@highlight Cladding fractures during tension at positions with hydrogen concentration 1500 wppm
