 Because of their hexagonal close packed structure and easy prismatic slip the tensile properties of Zirconium based alloys show strong texture dependence and hence anisotropy . The type of texture microstructure and hence the mechanical properties depend upon the sequence of manufacturing process followed in fabrication of components such as pressure tubes in pressurized heavy water type reactors . Due to small wall thickness of the pressure tubes designing and machining of specimens in all the three directions especially in the radial direction is a challenge and this explains the reason for scarcity of work in this area in research literature . In this work different types of specimens have been machined from transverse longitudinal and radial orientations of the Zr2.5 Nb Indian PT following a novel design in order to study the anisotropy in the plastic deformation and hardening properties . In addition shear specimens have been extracted from longitudinal transverse plane to study the plastic deformation in shear . Tests on tensile and shear specimens have been carried out at room temperature 100 200 and 300C respectively . Using the experimental data the parameters of Hills anisotropic yield function have been evaluated . In addition to evaluating the parameters at initial yield point the nature of variation of these parameters with equivalent plastic strain has also been established . This new material model where the anisotropic parameters evolve with plastic strain shall be useful for design and integrity assessment of the pressure tubes for different types of postulated loading conditions .

@highlight Zr2.5 Nb pressure tubes develop a texture during extrusion and pilgering processes leading to anisotropy in properties.
@highlight Special geometries of tensile and shear specimens are designed to facilitate their extraction from different orientations.
@highlight An algorithm has been developed for evaluating Hills parameters required for modeling anisotropy at different temperatures.
@highlight Yield and ultimate tensile strength values for transverse specimens are higher compared to those of other orientations.
@highlight Anisotropic parameter G is greater than F and H indicating shifting of Hills yield surface towards transverse orientation.
