 The main aim of this study is to fabricate the magnetic polymeric nanocomposite supported on the mesoporous boehmite by the facile preparation method . The core shell magnetic boehmite was synthesized by the co precipitation method . The coverage of polymeric layers was applied to modify the surface of magnetic boehmite for the adsorption of methylene blue and mercury ions in the single and binary solutions . The prepared samples were characterized by employing general tests including XRD FTIR FESEM TEM XPS BET and VSM . TEM and FESEM images displayed the well dispersed nanoparticles in the structure of nanocomposites with size of less than 40nm . The isotherm adsorption of the adsorbent was evaluated by using Langmuir Freundlich and the extended Langmuir in the single and multicomponent aqueous solutions . The experimental data was in the good agreement with Langmuir equation in the both unary and co adsorption process . The capacity of the magnetic polymeric nanocomposite was measured to be 70.03 and 36.94mg g for the adsorption of methylene blue and mercury ions respectively . The amount of adsorbed mercury and methylene blue ions in the competitive adsorption was calculated to be 14.93 and 10.17mg g respectively . The kinetic study was also conducted by two various models including pseudo first and second order models . The results indicated that the pseudo second order can justify the adsorption in the single and binary solutions . Reusability of the prepared sample in the competitive adsorption for six cycles indicated the appropriate performance of the used adsorbent for the industrial applications .

@highlight Novel magnetic polymeric nanocomposite was prepared by a facile preparation method.
@highlight Magnetic polymeric nanocomposite was included boehmite magnetite SiO
@highlight and polylactic acid.
@highlight Competitive adsorption of methylene blue and mercury ions was studied in the binary solution.
@highlight Maximum adsorption capacity was measured to be 14.93mg g for mercury ions in the presence of methylene blue.
@highlight Magnetic polymeric adsorbent was evaluated by XRD XPS BET TEM and VSM techniques.
