 Two flux thimble tubes made of 15 cold worked 316 stainless steel were harvested from Ringhals Pressurized Water Reactor Unit 2 with peak damages of 76 and 100 displacements per atom after 29 and 34 years service respectively . Specimens sectioned from parent tubes were comprehensively characterized with nominal damage levels of 0 41 74 76 and 100 dpa at a nominal temperature range of 285323C . Both FTTs contained helium and hydrogen gases as transmutation products . The helium follows a production rate of 9.8 appm dpa while environmental factors complicate hydrogen production obscuring an exact H dpa ratio . Irradiation induced dislocation loops nano cavities solute clusters and microsegregation were all observed . The dislocation loops and nano cavities indicated saturation at 41 dpa . The solute clusters continued to evolve with NiSi clusters formed at 41 dpa and NiSiMnP clusters formed at 74 and 100 dpa but neither clusters exhibited distinct diffraction patterns at any damage levels . Solute clusters were observed to frequently be co located with dislocation loops but fully decorated loops were rarely detected . Significant radiation induced segregation was observed around grain boundaries at all damage levels . The modified inverse Kirkendall model captured the RIS behavior of major elements . Large cavities within or around an MnS rich region were observed for the first time . Through all the damage levels void swelling is always below 0.05 making significant dimensional change unlikely in core internals when used at similar conditions . Meanwhile the role of overwhelming nanocavities presumably helium bubbles should be considered in other potential degradation mechanisms including irradiation assisted stress corrosion cracking embrittlement and loss of fracture toughness which remain the concerns for extended operation of nuclear power plants .

@highlight Flux thimble tube made of commercial 316 SS was characterized after 34 years of service in a commercial nuclear power plant.
@highlight The 316 SS had a recorded maximum damage level of 100 dpa.
@highlight Significant void swelling is unlikely to occur in core internals made of 316 SS while operating at similar conditions.
