 In this work an iterative method to calibrate the length measurements in digital lensless holographic microscopy is presented . In DLHM the correct sizing is controlled by the accurate knowledge of the illumination wavelength the digital camera specifications and the source to screen distance . While the two formers are provided by the manufacturers the latter has to be somehow measured usually by mechanical means . As an alternative for performing that key measurement in DLHM the Talbot self imaging effect and hence the Talbot distance is used as a measurement tool in this work . Amplitude reconstructions of a monolayer of self organized spheres of polystyrene produce the self imaging phenomenon with the Talbot distance controlled by the illuminating wavelength the reconstruction distance and the period of the monolayer . As the latter can be varied in DLHM by changing the source to screen distance while keeping fixed the wavelength and the camera specifications the source to screen distance is iteratively varied until the correct Talbot distance is found . The proposed method has the advantages of i increased sensitivity because of the axial quadratic dependency on transversal measurements ii not requiring in focus images that demand the use of focusing criteria and iii can use non approximated propagation methods to produce axial intensity profiles to determine the correct source to screen distance . The feasibility of the calibration method is tested by reconstructing a USAF 1951 test of resolution .

@highlight An iterative non invasive method based on Talbot effect is utilized for sizing calibration in Digital Lensless holographic microscopy.
@highlight The reported sizing calibration is independent of the lateral resolution of the microscope.
@highlight The calibration method operates along the propagation distance it introduces a quadratic sensibility in comparison with the linear one reported for the in plane calibration.
@highlight The proposed method does not require focused images to work.
@highlight Non approximated propagation methods are utilized.
