 In the process of welding seam tracking based on laser vision the location accuracy of the seam largely depends on the quality of the welding image training samples acquired in real time . However the interference of a strong arc spatter and other noise in the welding process seriously contaminate the training images which can cause tracking model drift and result in tracking failure . To enhance the robustness of the seam tracking model and improve the welding accuracy a welding image inpainting method based on a conditional generative adversarial network is proposed . We constructed a welding image inpainting network and defined a loss function for the network training . Through training the network learns an end to end mapping from a noisy welding image to the corresponding noise free image . Then to realize accurate automatic seam tracking the optimized inpainting network was integrated into a tracker for training sample restoration which improves the antinoise interference performance of the seam tracking system . The experimental results show that the proposed seam tracking method can stabilize the average welding error within 0.2 mm which is superior to the existing methods . This demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method for improving the robustness and welding accuracy of the seam tracking system .

@highlight A novel method is proposed to overcome the interference of strong noise during welding process.
@highlight A welding image inpainting network is constructed to decontaminate training data for seam tracking model in real time.
@highlight With a structured light vision system a specifically designed sampling method is adopted to collect training images for training a robust inpainting network.
@highlight To realize automatic seam tracking a welding image inpainting tracking method by embedding the inpainting network into an efficient convolution operators ECO tracker is proposed which significantly enhances the robustness of the tracking model and improves seam tracking accuracy.
