 Multi focus image fusion combines the focused parts of multiple images of the same scene to generate a fully focused image . Dual Channel Pulse coupled neural network is frequently used in image fusion framework due to its characteristics like global coupling pulse synchronization of neurons and simultaneous processing of two images . However it suffers from the manual setting of its parameters . This paper proposes a transform domain multi focus image fusion method based on a novel parameter adaptive DCPCNN model in which the parameters are adaptively estimated using the inputs . Moreover the linking strengths of the PA DCPCNN model are computed per neuron using a new fractal dimension based focus measure . First the multi scale and multi direction decomposition of source images are performed using non subsampled contourlet transform to obtain the low pass sub band and a number of band pass directional sub bands . Second the band pass directional sub bands of the source images are fused using the PA DCPCNN model . Third the low pass sub bands of source images are combined using multi scale morphological gradient and FDFM to generate the fused low pass sub band . Finally the fused image is obtained by applying inverse NSCT to the fused sub bands . The performance of the proposed method is compared with fourteen state of the art multi focus image fusion methods using six objective quality metrics . Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method is competitive with the state of the art methods in terms of both subjective and objective assessments .

@highlight A novel parameter adaptive DCPCNN PA DCPCNN is proposed.
@highlight A new multi focus image fusion framework is proposed in NSCT domain.
@highlight A new fractal dimension based focused measure FDFM is introduced.
@highlight The proposed focused measure calculates the clarity of a pixel.
@highlight Multi scale morphological gradients with FDFM help to fuse low pass sub bands.
@highlight The internal activities of the PA DCPCNN neurons help to fuse the band pass sub bands.
