 The measurement repeatability and accuracy encounter rapid deterioration when the gauge length drops below several millimeters in optical frequency domain reflectometry based distributed sensing system . To improve the measurement accuracy when the gauge length is short an approach based on the image processing is presented in this work . We have demonstrated the process of making the original 1D signal derived from the OFDR based distributed sensing system be a 2D image . The image processing is then applied to denoise the image which could make use of the 2D information from the measured data . The quality of each 1D cross correlation profile is enhanced and therefore the accuracy of the peak detection for the calculation of the spectrum deviation induced by the strain change could be improved . Three image processing methods are introduced evaluated and compared in a thoughtful way . The strategy of overlapped window is introduced to reduce the deterioration effect on the spatial resolution due to image processing . The distributed strain with a gauge length of 0.4mm is measured . Five to tenfold reduction on the measurement standard deviation when the gauge length is less than 3mm has been achieved . The results are helpful for high spatial resolution sensing applications . Furthermore the non local means algorithmic acceleration technique based on the summed square image scheme and fast Fourier Transform is illustrated and used to speed up the non local means algorithm making the processing speed over 30 times faster .

@highlight 2D image processing methods are introduced to remove the noise from data acquired by OFDR based distributed sensing system and thus improving the accuracy of the system.
@highlight The overlapped window strategy is introduced to decrease the deterioration effect on the spatial resolution due to the image processing.
@highlight The distributed strain with a gauge length of 0.4mm is measured and 5 to 10 times reduction on the measurement standard deviation when the gauge length is less than 3mm has been achieved.
