 For monitoring process stability and evaluating weld formation in lasermetal active gas arc welding hybrid welding this work proposes a new method that combines instantaneous status analysis and continuous stability analysis with a double high speed photography system . Instantaneous physical phenomena were extracted from the top and bottom surfaces which included information on arc light metallic vapour spatter and the flow of the bottom molten pool . These features were used to evaluate the instantaneous status by analysing the keyhole status and droplet transition status in 316 stainless steel laserMAG hybrid welding . The grey level co occurrence matrix and Gabor wavelet were used to measure the instantaneous status of the bottom molten pool in the spatial and frequency domains respectively . Multiple physical phenomena of the top surface were obtained by morphological methods . The process stability mechanism was analysed based on visual features and the timefrequency distributions of the process features were investigated for the stability analysis and formation evaluation . Unstable frequencies in the laserMAG hybrid welding process and their influence factors were presented . Additionally the relationship between the stability of the welding process and the weld formation was analysed by a continuous analysis method . The experimental results showed that the instantaneous analysis method effectively evaluated the instantaneous status of laserMAG hybrid welding process and the global stability of the continuous analysis method directly reflected the weld formation . The proposed method could be used to monitor the stability and weld formation of the laserMAG hybrid welding process .

@highlight Propose a new method that combines instantaneous status analysis and continuous stability analysis to monitor stability and evaluate weld formation in laser MAG hybrid welding.
@highlight Gray level co occurrence matrix and Gabor wavelet were used to measure the instantaneous status of bottom surface and morphological method was used to extract the visual features of top surface.
@highlight Unstable frequencies and stable frequencies of laser MAG hybrid welding process are presented.
@highlight Statistical method and frequency feature for continuous analysis.
