 Surface defect detection of strip steel is still a challenging task for its complex variances e.g . intra class defects exist large differences in appearance while inter class defects contain similar parts . To address these issues we regard the defect object as the salient part of the image and propose a novel effective saliency propagation algorithm based on multiple constraints and improved texture features . Firstly we deliberately design 83 dim texture features that are used to generate label matrix in the framework of multiple instance learning . Then we resort to Laplacian regularization viewed as smoothness constraint for enlarging the gap between defect objects and background and high level prior constraints for constraining the label information propagation process locally in order to uniformly highlight the complete defect objects while effectively suppress the non salient background . Finally we observe that the superpixel segmentation algorithm based on spectral clustering can adequately capture the edge information of defects thus promoting to yield high quality pixel level saliency maps . Experimental results implemented on the real challenging strip steel benchmark database demonstrate that our MCITF model outperforms state of the art methods with large margins and strong robustness in terms of eight evaluation metrics .

@highlight We formulate the strip steel surface defect detection problem as a saliency value evaluation issue and develop a novel model i.e. MCITF for defect object detection.
@highlight We propose an improved local binary pattern LBP descriptor i.e. the median robust adjacent evaluation of LBP MRAELBP and build a well designed 83 dim texture feature bank.
@highlight From the perspective of label information propagation we make full use of the generated label matrix to construct an effective saliency propagation algorithm that is seamlessly embedded into the proposed MCITF model.
@highlight We contribute three categories Inclusion Patches and Scratches consist of total 900 steel surface defect detection images and corresponding pixel wise binary maps ground truth called SD saliency 900.
@highlight The experimental results generated by our MCITF model are significantly superior to other state of the art methods which validates the rationality of the proposed model.
