 With the development of aerospace and fusion engineering understanding the mechanical behavior of materials under high temperature conditions has become increasingly important . However few studies are devoted to the ultra high temperature range of 20003000 C. In this study with the aim of developing non contact measuring techniques of mechanical deformation under ultra high temperature a high heat flux comprehensive experimental platform is established which includes a vacuum chamber a three dimensional digital image correlation system infrared radiation thermometers and an electron beam heating system . Using the electron beam heating technique the tungsten specimen can be heated to over 3000 C. Owing to the use of a vacuum chamber the thermally induced airflow disturbance at high temperature can be completely removed . Tantalum carbide powder is chosen as the speckle material and speckle fabrication technology is developed to adapt ultra high temperatures under vacuum conditions . In order to suppress the blackbody radiation at high temperature three schemes based on blue light sources self radiating light sources and a dual wavelength optical filter technique are designed for three temperature ranges from room temperature to 3067 C. Afterwards full field thermal deformation of the tungsten specimen above 3000 C was determined based on the above strategies using the 3D DIC technique . The feasibility and accuracy of the proposed methods are verified by comparing the measurement results with the thermal expansion strain data and model from available databases and literature . The standard deviations in different temperature intervals are 50 for 251200 C 100200 for 12001800 C and less than 500 for 18003067 C. The proposed methods and technologies are expected to lay a foundation for further developments in strain field measurements at ultra high temperature .

@highlight Speckles based on TaC powders and alcohol is robust and stable at ultra high temperature.
@highlight Three experimental schemes are designed for different temperature ranges to suppress blackbody radiation at ultra high temperature.
@highlight The full field strain of tungsten block is obtained from 250 to 3067 C.
