 Intelligent driving is an active area of research in both industry and academia . In order to overcome the shortcomings of traditional machine vision such as visibility is easily affected by illumination conditions the blind area of infrared small field of view is too large and could not provide depth information this paper proposes a method for detecting significant obstacles based on ultra wide FOV long wave infrared stereo vision system . The stereo vision positioning location with ultra wide FOV is established by the generalized fisheye camera model . On the basis of analyzing obstacle imaging scale and the structure characteristics of the proposed stereo vision system a multi scale salient region detection method based on composite pattern is proposed and its implementation process is described in detail . Experiment shows that the proposed ultra wide FOV LWIR stereo vision system is able to detect and locate significant obstacles in ultra wide FOV and the detection rate of pedestrians and vehicles in real complex street scenes is over 92.6 . At the same time the relative error of pedestrian positioning with a distance of 5m to 30m near the central FOV is between 1.6 10.3 and its spatial location ability and advantages are verified . The proposed stereo vision system effectively overcomes the shortcomings of existing vision systems expands the scope of machine vision and can be used in the field of assistant driving and intelligent driving .

@highlight A new method for machine vision a significant obstacle detection system with ultra wide FOV LWIR stereo vision system is proposed. Compared with visible imaging system it is not sensitive to illumination and shadow compared with small field of view infrared imaging system it eliminates the blind spot and provides accurate depth information.
@highlight This paper proposes a salient region detection method based on a composite pattern which realizes the detection of multi scale salient region in the ultra wide FOV LWIR images.
