 In this paper we experimentally demonstrate for the first time to our knowledge that optical encryption based on diffractive imaging is vulnerable to the attacks using learning methods . Using machine learning attack an opponent is capable to retrieve unknown plaintexts from the given ciphertexts . The proposed method adopts end to end learning to extract a superior mapping relationship between the ciphertexts and the plaintexts . Without a direct retrieval or estimate of optical encryption keys an unauthorised user can extract unknown plaintexts from the given ciphertexts by using the trained learning models . Simulations and optical experimental results demonstrate that the proposed learning method is feasible and effective to analyze the vulnerability of optical encryption schemes . The universality of the trained learning model is also illustrated and it is verified that the machine learning model trained by using a database is robust to be used for attacking different databases . Compared with conventional cryptanalytic methods the proposed machine learning attacks can retrieve unknown plaintexts from the given ciphertexts using the trained learning models without a direct usage of various different optical encryption keys which provides a different strategy for the cryptanalysis of optical encryption systems . @ Elsevier 2019 .

@highlight It is experimentally demonstrated that optical encryption based on diffractive imaging is vulnerable to machine learning attacks.
@highlight Optical encryption based on diffractive imaging cannot withstand the proposed machine learning attacks.
@highlight The trained learning model can extract unknown plaintexts from the given ciphertexts in real time without the direct retrieval or estimate of various different optical encryption keys.
@highlight The universality of the trained learning model is also illustrated and it is verified that the machine learning model trained by using a database is robust to be used for attacking different databases.
@highlight The proposed machine learning attacks would urge the further investigation of optical encryption schemes to enhance their security.
@highlight The proposed machine learning attacks could hold the promise for further developments of the cryptanalysis of optical encryption.
