 In this study a high repetition rate laser ultrasonic system is developed for noncontact detection of silicon wafer crack . A high repetition rate pulse laser is used to generate two narrowband ultrasonic waves on a target silicon wafer whereas a high speed laser Doppler vibrometer is used to measure the corresponding ultrasonic responses . Nonlinear interaction occurs between the two generated ultrasonic waves due to crack formation producing nonlinear ultrasonic modulation at the sum and difference of the two excitation frequencies . Outlier analysis is performed on the amplitudes of the nonlinear modulation components and a fatigue crack is identified when the amplitudes of the nonlinear modulation components exceed a user specified threshold . The uniqueness of this study is as follows . A noncontact high speed and scanning laser ultrasonic system is developed using a high repetition rate laser for ultrasonic generation and a laser Doppler vibrometer for sensing as well as scanning the two laser beams simultaneously in a pitch catch mode . Two narrowband ultrasonic waves up to 1MHz are simultaneously generated from a single laser pulse . Micro cracks with widths of less than 10m are successfully detected by extracting the crack induced nonlinear ultrasonic modulation components . The probability of detection of the proposed crack detection technique is evaluated . The performance of the proposed technique is experimentally validated using eight silicon wafer specimens with varying crack lengths . Results show that the proposed technique yields a 90 probability of detection in silicon wafers when the crack length is over 3.77mm .

@highlight A laser ultrasonic system is developed using a high repetition rate laser for ultrasonic generation and a laser Doppler vibrometer for sensing.
@highlight Two narrowband ultrasonic waves up to 1MHz are simultaneously generated from a single laser pulse.
@highlight Micro cracks with widths of less than 10m are successfully detected by extracting the crack induced nonlinear ultrasonic modulation components.
@highlight The probability of detection of the proposed technique is evaluated. Its performance is experimentally validated using eight silicon wafer specimens with varying crack lengths.
