 Directly using wrapped phases may cause a problem of phase ambiguity in fringe projection based three dimensional imaging . In our previous work the phase ambiguity was addressed by introducing light field imaging to associate a wrapped phase encoded field in the image space with several candidates of spatial points in the object space to identify the correct fringe orders for absolute phase unwrapping . The candidate spatial points with absolute phases can be reconstructed by satisfying the mandatory requirements of system fixation and pre calibration which may lack flexibility and applicability . Since we also illustrated that the correspondence cue in an unwrapped phase encoded field could be used for accurate light field depth estimation an instructive question is whether or not depth cues of the light field imaging can provide constraint conditions to deal with the phase ambiguity without these systematic requirements . To this end a method for structured light field 3D imaging is proposed . The wrapped phase encoded field was processed to be locally continuous with respect to the phases in specific angular coordinates . After that the correspondence cue focusing on the local angular variance of the processed wrapped phase encoded field was used to estimate depths correctly without the requirement of system pre calibration . Furthermore comparative experiments under different measurement conditions including the changes of the fringe period of projected patterns the focal length of the projector and the relative orientation among system components produced the consistent measurement results . Consequently the proposed method is proved to adapt to the changes in the measurement environment and be a flexible way for structured light field 3D imaging without the need for phase unwrapping .

@highlight A method for structured light field 3D imaging without phase unwrapping is proposed.
@highlight The wrapped phase encoded field was processed to be locally continuous and then used for depth estimation and 3D imaging without the requirement of system pre calibration.
@highlight Comparative experiments under different measurement conditions were performed and resulted in consistent measurement results.
@highlight The proposed method is proved to adapt to the changes in the measurement environment and be suitable for flexible structured light field 3D imaging without the need for phase unwrapping.
