 A dual channel interferometer is proposed for vibration resistant optical measurement . The DCI employs a dual channel interference optical path design wherein an assistant channel is used to generate dense fringe patterns by introducing a spatial carrier frequency and the coefficients of the vibration tilt phase plane are then extracted . The sparse fringe patterns of the main channel are combined with the coefficients of the tilt phase plane to calculate the measured phase distribution . This study reports the optical path and principles of the interference system . Simulations are performed using the proposed DCI phase extraction algorithm . To verify the DCI performance phase measurements are carried out in a vibrating environment and the results obtained using the proposed method are compared with those obtained using spatial phase shifting interferometry . The experimental results demonstrate that the DCI can effectively overcome the effect of vibration . Unlike spatial carrier frequency interferometry although the spatial carrier frequency is also introduced in the assistant channel in the proposed DCI method the dual channel information extraction algorithm helps eliminate the calibration process of the retrace error before measurement making this a calibration free measurement . Moreover the DCI utilizes environmental vibration to generate a phase shift thus not only eliminating the need for a vibration isolation platform but also the need for a precise phase shifting device with advantages such as structural simplicity ease of operation and low cost .

@highlight The DCI adopts a dual channel interference optical path design and its structure is novel.
@highlight An assistant channel is used for extracting the coefficients of the vibration tilt phase planes using a new stepwise local up sampling phase correlation algorithm whereas the main channel is combined with the tilt phase plane generated based on the coefficients to obtain the measured phase using the least squares method.
@highlight The new concept of dual channel information extraction helps avoid the influence of the retrace error and eliminate the calibration process of the retrace error before measurement making this a calibration free measurement.
@highlight The DCI utilizes environmental vibration to achieve phase shifting and it does not require expensive and precise phase shifting devices.
@highlight The DCI is of the temporal phase shifting type it effectively avoids the inconsistency in the contrast between fringe patterns due to polarisation elements.
