 Combining the advantages of structured light and close range photogrammetry is an effective strategy for large scale three dimensional optical shape measurement . Several coded targets are typically required to be pasted on the object being tested which induces several shortcomings . This paper proposes a structured light measurement technique based on reverse photography . An auxiliary reverse camera is installed behind the structured light system . When a single local measurement is performed the reverse camera observes a large liquid crystal display screen that is used as an oriented phase target . According to the multiple imaging constraints for the reverse camera the local 3D shape data of multi view structured light measurements are unified in a global frame defined on the LCD screen achieving a holistic 3D shape data fusion . The proposed method possesses the advantage of reverse information transmission and pose transfer achieving non contact large scale 3D shape measurement .

@highlight The advantages of close range photogrammetry exhibit large scale high accuracy and hight precision but the number of measurable points is limited and the spatial resolution is not enough.
@highlight The advantages of structured light 3D shape measurement present high precision and high resolution but the measurable size is limited.
@highlight The combination of structured light 3D shape measurement and close range photogrammetry has become an effective measure for large scale high precision and high resolution 3D measurement.
@highlight However a number of coded targets are commonly required to be pasted on the measured object which induces a series of shortcomings and limitations. This paper proposes a structured light shape measurement based on reverse photography.
@highlight An auxiliary reverse camera is installed on a structured light system. When the single local measurement is performed the reverse camera observes a large LCD screen that is used as an oriented phase target.
@highlight According to the multiple imaging constraints for reverse camera local 3D data of multiple structured light measurements are unified in a global frame defined with the LCD screen achieving the whole 3D data fusion. Kalman filter is considered to reduce the measurement uncertainty in the 3D registration and fusion.
