 Despite the recent advances in augmented reality which has shown the potential to significantly impact on our daily lives by offering a new way to manipulate and interact with virtual information minimizing visual discomfort due to the vergenceaccommodation conflict remains a challenge . Emerging AR technologies often exploit focus tunable optics to address this problem . Although they demonstrated improved depth perception by enabling proper focus cues a bulky form factor of focustunable optics prevents their use in the form of a pair of eyeglasses . Here we propose a novel optical configuration for a compact vari focal AR display which deliberately utilizes the zeroth and first diffraction orders of the LC lens to produce two foci one for a real object and the other for a virtual object with addressable focal planes . The prototype AR glasses can adjust the accommodation distance of the virtual image mitigating the vergenceaccommodation conflict without substantially compromising the form factor or image quality . In addition we describe the design fabrication and characterization of an ultrathin polarization insensitive focus tunable liquid crystal diffractive lens with a large aperture a low weight and a low operating voltage . We show that the polarization dependence of the lens which is an inherent optical property of LC lenses can be insensitive using the trilayer birefringent materials and by aligning the optical axes of each birefringent material at a specific angle . The polarization insensitivity eliminates the need for a polarizer thus further reducing the form factor of the optical system . This novel approach offers significantly reduced complexity for designing AR glasses with addressable focal planes . These technologies for ultrathin lens and AR display show promising potential for developing compact optical systems in various applications .

@highlight Novel method to design compact vari focal AR display was proposed and characterized.
@highlight The prototype AR display mitigates vergence accommodation conflict without substantially compromising the form factor or image quality.
@highlight Ultrathin polarization insensitive and adaptive liquid crystal diffractive lens was designed fabricated characterized and incorporated in AR display.
