 When the terminal position and shape detection properties of a fiber Bragg grating curve sensor are used in medicine the positioning accuracy of the FBG curve sensor is critical in the prediagnosis and treatment of diseases . To improve the shape reconstruction accuracy two updated reconstruction algorithms are proposed based on the error accumulation of a single point recursive reconstruction algorithm according to the Frenet coordinate system . First the motion coordinate system depends on the curve and tangent vector . Next the curvature vector is synthesized in the motion coordinate system on the close plane the motion coordinate transformation matrix of the discrete point is calculated in the close plane and the relevant formula is deduced subsequently . Finally the improved algorithms are verified out . Experimental results indicate that the proposed algorithms improved the terminal position accuracy . Compared with the single point recursive algorithm in a single bending experiment the maximum shape errors of the terminal position are 2.65 and 2.53 using the fitting method of multipoint curvature and nonfixed point fitting method based on the Frenet frame respectively . In double bending experiment the maximum shape errors of the applied improved algorithms are 2.74 and 2.60 respectively which exhibit good planar shape reconstruction accuracy . In an out of plane three dimensional shape reconstruction experiment the maximum shape errors of these two improved methods are 3.40 and 3.32 respectively . The improved algorithms provide an algorithm basis for the improvement of space curve reconstruction accuracy and they can be applied in the detection of wing deformation structure and real time detection of soil deformation in shield engineering .

@highlight Due to the smaller error of the previous detection points two new shape reconstruction algorithms are proposed to improve the reconstruction accuracy and the original single point recursive algorithm is transformed into multi points recursive curve fitting.
@highlight The theoretical formulas of the two improved algorithms are derived and calculated.
@highlight Compared with the single point recursive algorithm in single bending plane the maximum shape error of the terminal position applied improved algorithm is 2.65 and 2.53 respectively.
@highlight In double bending plane the maximum shape error applied improved algorithm is 2.74 and 2.60 respectively which has good plane shape reconstruction accuracy.
@highlight In three dimensional shape reconstruction experiment of out of plane the maximum shape errors of these two improved methods are 3.40 and 3.32 respectively.
