 In the process of computer vision based seam tracking although strong noise interference exists such as that arising from arc and splash in the welding process the tracking effect has been significantly improved by noise reduction feature point probability estimation and other methods . However in the process of automatic tracking of a seam tracking system the robot s pose can not be adapted to various welding conditions in real time resulting in decreased weld quality . To enhance the adaptability and real time estimation of the robot s pose during welding this paper proposes a real time pose estimation method for a seam tracking system . In a welding environment with strong noise interference the real time pose estimation of the welding workpiece is carried out and the robot s pose is changed in real time . The pose estimation is realized by building point cloud data constructing a tool coordinate system in real time and obtaining rotation angles . To accurately acquire the point cloud data efficient convolution operators for tracking and the morphological intersection method integrated with a support vector machine are adopted to classify the images with strong noise to better suppress the tracking model drift . The offline tracking test shows that compared with the original tracking algorithm the proposed method can significantly suppress the peak value of pixel error and reduce its mean value . The welding experiment results show that the proposed method can be adapted to various welding conditions and achieve adaptive and real time robot pose goals which improves the welding precision and quality .

@highlight A real time pose estimation method for seam tracking system is proposed.
@highlight In various welding conditions with strong noise interference the proposed method change the robot s pose in real time and adaptively.
@highlight The pose estimation is realized by building point cloud data constructing a tool coordinate system in real time and obtaining rotation angles.
@highlight To accurately acquire point cloud data for pose estimation method efficient convolution operators ECO for tracking and the morphological intersection method integrated with a support vector machine SVM are adopted to classify the images with strong noise to better suppress the tracking model drift.
