 In combination of the Virtual Fields Method and Moir Interferometry a novel method to characterize the elastic constants of single crystal Ni based superalloys called the Orientation Identified Virtual Fields Method is proposed in this study . The most outstanding advantage of the OIVFM is that it is able to characterize all the elastic constants of a single crystal Ni based superalloy using a single test without the given parameter of crystal orientation . In this paper the theory of the OIVFM is firstly introduced in detail to explain the identification process . Simulations and error analyses are conducted to verify the feasibility of the OIVFM . The simulation results match well with the reference values and the error is less than 1GPa for all the elastic constants . Finally a single crystal Ni based superalloy is used for the real experiments . Moir Interferometry is applied to measure the full field strain with which the OIVFM is then utilized to calculate the elastic constants of the material . The experiments provide satisfactory results and show a small discreteness . Therefore it is concluded that the proposed OIVFM can be successfully applied to characterize all the elastic constants of single crystal Ni based superalloys . By using the OIVFM it is not necessary to determine the crystal orientation in advance and as a result the efficiency of experiment can be improved and its costs can also be reduced .

@highlight The theory of the Orientation Identified Virtual Fields Method OIVFM is proposed to measure the mechanical properties of the single crystal Ni based superalloys when the orientation angle is unknown.
@highlight The Moir Interferometry is combined with the proposed OIVFM to determine the mechanical parameters of single crystal Ni based superalloys.
@highlight The proposed OIVFM can calculate all the in plane elastic constants even when the constitutive relation is not fully known and is a promising method for application with other anisotropic materials.
