 Refractive index matching is often used for flow measurement in porous media studies that use optical techniques . However the refractive index of transparent porous media often constructed of beads is not always readily available or measurable with commonly used measuring devices such as refractometers . Therefore an alternative technique is needed for determining the refractive index of the beads forming the porous media . The available methods in the literature involve a rigorous procedure and use a laser to illuminate the medium . Their setups are often complex and are sensitive to small changes in the temperature or wavelength and sometimes needs continuous stirring of the medium to have a homogeneous porous media . A new approach for measuring and matching the refractive index of beads that minimizes the limits of the available techniques is presented here . Unlike common RIM measurement approaches the proposed technique involves no laser light and therefore is relatively simpler than similar approaches found in the literature . This approach uses shadow imaging to capture images of the beads forming the porous medium while the RIM fluid flows through it . A comparison approach using a reference image and a structural similarity metric to quantify the level of the refraction index matching is used to identify the refractive index of the dispersed phase . The approach is verified experimentally using borosilicate glass beads as the dispersed phase . Two different RIM fluids Potassium thiocyanate solutions and a mixture of Drakeol 7 as silicone oil and soybean oil are used as the test fluids to compare the independency performance of the approach . The approach not only identifies the general refractive index of the dispersed phase but can also be used to identify local spatial variations in the porous media . In addition using the imaging approach minimizes the effort for determining the refractive index of the solid for flow experiments and reduces the need for equipment or changes to the setup .

@highlight A new approach for measuring and matching the refractive index of potential non homogeneous material that minimizes the limits of available techniques.
@highlight This imaging approach minimizes the effort for determining the refractive index of a solid for flow experiments and reduces the need for equipment or changes to the setup.
@highlight This
@highlight RIM approach uses a simple experimental setup based on a shadowgraphy imaging technique.
@highlight The approach can be well applied for cases that impurities in the porous media affect the refractive index or there is distribution in the medium refractive index.
