 This work presents a method for the efficient experimental generation of arbitrary polarized vector beam modes . The optical system employs two liquid crystal on silicon spatial light modulators in a common path architecture avoiding the use of beam splitters . Each SLM displays a different phase only mask each one encoding a different pattern onto two orthogonal linear polarization components of the input beam . These phase only masks are designed using a recently proposed random technique to encode complex amplitude values . This encoding technique reconstructs the complex function on axis thus avoiding incorporating carrier phases . By addressing such properly designed phase only holograms we demonstrate arbitrary scalar modes on each polarization component whose superposition results in a vector beam mode . Different superpositions of LaguerreGaussian and HermiteGaussian modes are obtained and the generated vector beam modes are analyzed . Moreover the addition of a phase bias proves itself useful to perform a phase shifting technique in order to evaluate the correct phase of the generated vector beam .

@highlight We combine recent advances in order to achieve an efficient generation of arbitrary vector beams using spatial light modulators SLMs .
@highlight First we apply an optical setup in a Z configuration based on two liquid crystal on silicon LCoS panels free of flicker working in phase only modulation to generate programmable vector modes. This type of configuration is very robust and efficient since it has a common path for both polarization components and no beam splitters are required.
@highlight Because the LCoS employed are free from flicker our
@highlight optical system presents high diffraction as opposed to LCoS systems with flicker that must be operated off axis due to the zero order DC component caused by this flicker effect.
@highlight Since LCoS operate in phase only modulation regime we use a recently developed method to encode complex valued computer generated holograms CGH onto phase only displays. This method is very efficient in terms of light budget since it does not require adding a carrier phase function and does not reduce the available space bandwidth product.
@highlight Furthermore we demonstrate that our experimental set up enables to easily retrieve the phase distribution of the resulting vector modes by using a four step phase shifting algorithm.
