 When an object with a rough surface is illuminated using a coherent laser the scattered light rays interfere to create a three dimensional speckle field that fills the adjacent space . If the object is displaced or tilted the entire speckle field moves in response . Therefore the motion of an object can be measured remotely by tracking the movements of the objective speckle pattern recorded on a lensless imaging sensor placed within the speckle field . It is demonstrated that the same image acquisition can be made using a defocused camera where the recorded speckle pattern corresponds to the image that would be recorded by a lensless sensor placed at the camera s focal plane . In this paper this feature is experimentally demonstrated by showing the correspondence between the captured objective and defocused speckle patterns . The effective speckle field sampling position can then be freely chosen by controlling the camera focus distance rather than needing to move the sensor physically . Furthermore the defocused speckle patterns are scaled by the optical system in focus magnification ratio enabling further tuning of measurement sensitivity . This paper presents a series of displacement and tilt measurements designed to investigate the sensitivity characteristics of defocused speckle imaging . The measurements made at various object distances up to 16m demonstrate the method s suitability for high sensitivity remote measurement applications . A strategy to separate linear and rotational components under multiaxial object motion is also proposed .

@highlight The physical interpretation of defocused speckle imaging is highlighted.
@highlight Speckle field sampling distance can be easily controlled by adjusting camera focus.
@highlight The correspondence between defocused and objective speckle patterns is experimentally demonstrated.
@highlight Simultaneous multi axial object motions are identified using a dual camera arrangement.
@highlight Remote measurements are demonstrated at various distances up to 16m.
