 Sapphire is widely used in civilian and military equipment owing to its superior optical and mechanical properties . Femtosecond laser has been demonstrated to be an effective tool to process sapphire material . However the direct processing of sapphire by femtosecond laser still meets some challenges such as poor ablation morphology and low laser energy absorption . In this work femtosecond laser processing of sapphire coated with a 12 nm thick gold film has been investigated . The experimental results have revealed that the ablation morphology of Au coated sapphire has been improved featuring fewer molten materials and thermal cracks as well as regular crater shape and uniform periodic surface structures . It has also been found that under 100 shots condition the threshold fluence of Au coated sapphire is reduced by about 56 compared to that of uncoated one . Meanwhile the incubation effect of Au coated sapphire is stronger than that of uncoated one . We also illustrate that the material removal rate of Au coated sapphire is increased up to about two times higher than that of uncoated one . In order to reveal the effective mechanism of the gold film in the laser processing of sapphire the energy transfer process among incident photons free electrons and sapphire lattice phonons was studied . Our study provides a guidance for improving the laser ablation capacity of sapphire .

@highlight The ablation morphology of sapphire coated with a 12 nm thick gold film has been improved featuring fewer re solidified molten materials and thermal cracks as well as regular crater shape.
@highlight The material removal rate of sapphire has increased 2.24 times by depositing a nanolayered gold film on sapphire surface under 50 shot and 150J energy.
@highlight The effective mechanism of gold film has been theoretically investigated via the energy transfer among incident photons free electrons and sapphire lattice phonons.
@highlight The gold film can enhance energy transfer from incident laser to sapphire lattice phonons and cause homogenous laser energy deposition on the sapphire surface.
