 Vibration analysis for rotating propeller blades under water is obviously challenging . This study proposes stationary and tracking laser Doppler vibrometer based measurement techniques for vibration analysis of the rotating propeller . The vibration measurement setup consists of an LDV a DAQ and control system and the rotating propeller that contains five blades mounted to the shaft through a rotor . To confirm the reliability of the proposed stationary and tacking LDV measurement results the hammer impact tests are performed using a contact PZT accelerometer to obtain the velocity vibration results in time and frequency domain . These results are compared with LDV measurements for both in air and underwater cases . Both LDV and contact PZT measurements were taken simultaneously . The compared results show that the time velocity signals and the corresponding frequency components obtained using hammer impact tests are very similar to the proposed LDV based measurement techniques . In addition a numerical simulation is performed using COMSOL Multiphysics software to obtain natural frequencies of the system in air and underwater cases . These numerical simulation results are compared with bolt impact measurements taken on rotating propeller blade using LDV . Comparison of stationary and tracking LDV measurement results with the numerical analysis for in air and underwater cases showed matching results . From these results it is concluded that the proposed techniques can be effectively used for underwater vibration measurement of the blades of rotating propeller .

@highlight Stationary and tracking LDV measurement techniques for underwater vibration analysis.
@highlight The surface velocity data for propeller rotating underwater obtained using the LDV.
@highlight Bolt impact measurements taken on rotating propeller blade using LDV.
@highlight Agreement in the comparison results of proposed non contact underwater vibration measurement methods contact method and numerical simulation.
