 The ultrasonic assisted water confined laser micromachining is a novel micromachining method . This paper reports the experimental studies of ultrasonic power and water layer thickness on the laser micromachining of silicon . Besides this reports a systematic discussion on the influence of the acoustic streaming and bubbles dynamic change on the machining process . The acoustic streaming and flow pattern under different ultrasonic power application and different water layer thickness using Particle Image Velocimetry . A finite element heat transfer model was employed to gain a better understanding of the effect of the acoustic streaming velocity on the temperature field change in laser processing . The bubbles dynamic behavior is observed by the high speed camera . The results showed that the ultrasonic assisted laser ablation can yield much higher the material removal rate than laser cutting in water without ultrasonic assisted . Besides the increase in the ultrasonic power helps to improve the etching efficiency but is not apparent . When the water layer thickness is 1mm the cutting effect is significantly different from the laser ablation in the other three water layers . Through the PIV images and simulate results it has been found that the influence of acoustic streaming on heat transfer in laser processing is small . Through high speed camera imaging observations the dynamic change of bubbles is an essential mechanism for the enhanced material removal rate and affect the machining performance in this study . This study helps understand the mechanism of ultrasonic assisted water confined laser micromachining better and promoting this technique potential application in the micromachining of hard brittle materials .

@highlight The laser ablation in different ultrasonic power and water layer thickness has been investigated.
@highlight The effects of ultrasonic power and water layer thickness on the cut geometry and surface morphology were experimentally investigated.
@highlight There is systematic discussion on the influence of the acoustic streaming and laser induced bubbles on the 1064nm laser processing in water.
