 In a complex industrial environment it is not appropriate to use the traditional Zhang s calibration method to shoot multiple checkerboard images in different positions and due to the contour characteristics of the cylindrical target camera calibration and line structured calibration can be simultaneously performed . Therefore a complete calibration method for a line structured light system based on a single cylindrical target is proposed . The calibration process is as follows Placing the cylindrical target at least once and illuminate it with the light strip of the laser projector . The vision sensor captures the target image and then extracts the laser stripes and contour images of the cylindrical target . According to the contour characteristics of the cylindrical target and the definition of the collinear vector the extracted contour image is used to solve the internal parameters of the camera . Because the line structured light plane and cylindrical target intersection line in the axial of cylindrical is a standard circle the equation of the light plane is established on the camera coordinate system . The effectiveness of the method is verified by simulation and physical experiments . The experimental results show that the RMS errors of the 30 distance is 0.07mm . The proposed method does not need to rely on the constraints of multiple images and is simple to operate meeting the requirements of industrial 3D measurement technology .

@highlight This paper presents a simple method for calibrating structured light systems.
@highlight Compared with the existing structured light system calibration methods on the market there is no need for complicated system structure and cumbersome solving process.
@highlight To a certain extent it guarantees high calibration accuracy and reduces the absolute demand for the calibration environment.
@highlight The method proposed in this paper is more suitable for the industrial production application with poor calibration environment.
