 ISM can effectively enhance the signal strength and spatial resolution of traditional confocal microscopy . However its maximum resolution is limited to 2 times higher than confocal . On the other hand stimulated emission depletion microscopy has been proven to be able to greatly improve the spatial resolution of confocal and has been widely used in practical applications . In this article we present the implementation of STED with array detection and photon reassignment and for convenient engineering applications we also implement an integrated and practical array detection and photon reassignment module . We give a brief explanation of theoretical basis of array detection and photon reassignment and make a comparison of these two methods . In practical applications we tested the imaging characteristics of the system with a variety of samples . The results show that array detection can effectively improve the imaging signal to noise ratio meanwhile photon reassignment can also improve SNR and resolution to some extent under different depletion intensity . We believe that our research will provide effective inspiration and reference for subsequent research and can be widely applied to actual imaging observations .

@highlight This article present a novel implementation of stimulated emission depletion STED microscopy with array detection and photon reassignment and we make an integrated 19 channel array detection and photon reassignment module for convenient engineering applications. The fiber bundle in this design ensures maximum light energy collection efficiency and the whole module is highly compatible with current STED systems.
@highlight This article present STED based on array detection and photon reassignment and conduct a careful theoretical analysis. Corresponding experimental demonstrate that array detection can effectively improve the imaging signal to noise ratio SNR meanwhile photon reassignment can also improve SNR and resolution to some extent under different depletion intensity. This is also beneficial for enhancing the imaging speed and image post process. We think our implementation can be widely applied in practical engineering and imaging applications.
@highlight Our researches indicate that the actual parameters mainly depletion intensity and fluorescence signal intensity in specific applications will have a significant impact on the effects of array detection and photon reassignment and should be considered in practical engineering applications. We also compared the respective effect of array detection and photon reassignment on the imaging characteristics. These researches could be a useful reference for subsequent study.
