 When it comes to phase measurement or quantitative phase imaging many people will automatically connect them with laser and interferometry . Indeed conventional quantitative phase imaging and phase measurement techniques generally rely on the superposition of two beams with a high degree of coherence complex interferometric configurations stringent requirements on the environmental stabilities and associated laser speckle noise severely limit their applications in optical imaging and microscopy . On a different note as one of the most well known phase retrieval approaches the transport of intensity equation provides a new non interferometric way to access quantitative phase information through intensity only measurement . Despite the insufficiency for interferometry TIE is applicable under partially coherent illuminations permitting optimum spatial resolution higher signal to noise ratio and better image quality . In this tutorial we give an overview of the basic principle research fields and representative applications of TIE focus particularly on optical imaging metrology and microscopy . The purpose of this tutorial is twofold . It should serve as a self contained introduction to TIE for readers with little or no knowledge of TIE . On the other hand it attempts to give an overview of recent developments in this field . These results highlight a new era in which strict coherence and interferometry are no longer prerequisites for quantitative phase imaging and diffraction tomography paving the way toward new generation label free three dimensional microscopy with applications in all branches of biomedicine .

@highlight This paper presents an exhaustive and comprehensive tutorial of transport of intensity equation TIE 
@highlight The basic principles derivations and physical implications of the TIE are described.
@highlight The numerical solutions axial intensity derivative estimation partially coherent imaging and diffraction tomography based on TIE are discussed in detail.
@highlight Some representative applications of TIE are presented with emphasis on optical imaging metrology and microscopy.
@highlight The challenging problems as well as future research directions are also outlined.
