 The rotational Doppler effect associated with angular momentum paves a new way to the rotation speed detection . Many previous works have researched the rotational Doppler effect based on the LaguerreGaussian or Bessel Gaussian beam . In this work we propose a scheme in the spinning object detection by employing the perfect vortex . The perfect vortex is obtained by passing Bessel Gaussian beam through a convex lens . An experiment scheme is proposed in a superposition light system . The results show that the perfect vortex has the same well performance in rotation speed detection with other optical vortex beams . Furthermore the ring radius of the perfect vortex is convenient to change without bothering the topological charge which is more flexible in detecting targets with different size . Especially when the topological charges of the two components of a superposition beams are not at the same magnitude the perfect vortex is performing better than the LaguerreGaussian beam . As the propagation distance increase the perfect vortex still has a gratifying accuracy of rotation speed detection . Our findings are useful when people want to manipulate and obtain the rotation speed of the micro particles simultaneously . Moreover this work is an important supplement in the Doppler velocimetry and maybe useful in micromanipulation and remote sensing .

@highlight We successfully generate high quality perfect vortex and first use the perfect vortex in spinning object detection.
@highlight We made contrast between the perfect vortex and normal optical vortex in the detection effect. The results show that perfect vortex has the same well performance in rotation speed detection with other optical vortex beams. Especially when the topological charges of the two components of a superposition beams are not at the same magnitude the perfect vortex is performing better than the LaguerreGaussian beam.
@highlight We propose a scheme in the spinning object detection by employing the perfect vortex and corresponding experiments have been done to verify the conclusions.
@highlight Our findings are useful when people want to manipulate and obtain the rotation speed of the micro particles simultaneously.
@highlight This work is an important supplement in the Doppler velocimetry and maybe useful in micromanipulation and remote sensing.
