 The fringe projection profilometry has obtained increasing popularity in the field of industrial automation inverse engineering and graphics . Recent literature reveals that the non ideal system point spread function in FPP will cause phase error in the area around the discontinuous edge . Existing error reduction methods need to detect the location of all the edges accurately first which are hard to accomplish when the camera is defocused . Meanwhile the corrected data in the error area relies heavily on the data in its nearest unaffected area which makes the corrected data unreliable . We prove that the non ideal system PSF will also induce phase error in the area of surface details and this is a problem seldom discussed in FPP . In this work the relationships between the PSF induced phase error and system parameters are deduced mathematically and numerically . Additionally a deconvolution based method is proposed to reduce the PSF induced phase error in this paper . The proposed method can overcome the shortcomings of the existing approaches . Both simulation and experiment results show that our proposed method can reduce the Root Mean Square phase height error by up to 4 times and can also improve the measured 3D details significantly .

@highlight This paper reveals that the non impulse system point spread function PSF will cause measurement error on the area of surface details. This problem is seldom discussed and reduced before in the field of fringe projection profilometry FPP .
@highlight The mathematical expression of system PSF induced phase error is deduced based on which the relationships between the error and system parameters are analyzed.
@highlight 2D and 3D spatial varying PSF calibration methods for FPP system as well as their corresponding deconvolution algorithms are proposed for suppressing the measurement error around the discontinuous edges and surface details. The proposed method can reduce the Root Mean Square phase height error by up to 4 times and can also significantly improve the measured 3D details. Compared with the existing methods in reducing the error around the discontinuous edges the proposed method is more robust and reliable.
