 Choosing a proper representation is the first step of numerically describing wave functions or solving Schrdinger equations . One of the widely used representations is discretized coherent state representation . However the DCSR performs badly in computation because of its overcompleteness and high dimension in the phase space . We present a circularly discretized coherent state representation and two corresponding fast algorithms to overcome the disadvantages of the DCSR . By using the CDCSR the function can be simply expressed as same as that in an orthogonal representation . Using two fast algorithms we can largely simplify the computational complexity .

@highlight We have constructed a new coherent state representation called circularly discretized coherent state representation CDCSR . The CDCSR is a nonorthogonal representation but it can be projected and reconstructed as same as that in an orthogonal representation. Moreover our representation keeps Gaussian shaped so the basis functions in the CDCSR are eigenstates of the creation and annihilation operators. Once the Hermitian operator can be expressed in finite polynomials of creation and annihilations our representation can solve its eigenvalue problems easily.
@highlight We have put forward a new algorithm called one rank LNV method based on the LNV method. This method can help us find the lowest eigenvalue and eigenstate in an eigenvalue problem with much less computational cost as we replace the matrices product in the LNV method by a product of a matrix and a vector.
@highlight Taking advantage of the periodicity of the CDCSR we have put forward a fast algorithm used in calculating the matrix multiplication based on the Fast Fourier Transform FFT which largely reduce the computational cost. It is a unique advantage of our representation as the grids in the CDCSR in the phase pace are distributed polarly which means they are evenly distributed in angular direction and it is the best condition to use the FFT to avoid large computational cost in the product of a matrix and a vector.
