 Individuals often form their identity based on their membership in a group and may exhibit a bias towards favoring members of the in group . When resources are plentiful individuals are more likely to be tolerant of members of out group sharing the resources . However when there is a scarcity of resources the resource stress could lead to a negative attitude towards members of the out group as sharing of resources may be viewed as a zero sum game . Schelling s spatial proximity model shows how residential segregation emerges even when households only have a slight preference for members of their in group . The original formulation by Schelling as well as many of its extensions have assumed that the amount of space available to agents to relocate was fixed . Agents preference for members of the in group also had been assumed to be invariant during the simulation run . This paper presents an extension of Schelling s model by relaxing these two assumptions to focus on the context of growing scarcity of environmental resources and the resulting decline in the tolerance for members of the out group . Drawing upon theories in social psychology it was assumed that declining resources lead to lower tolerance for members of the out group as this scarce resource had to be shared . An agent based simulation examined the impact of varying the degree of intolerance towards members of the out group on the level of segregation in an artificial society . Several what if scenarios were analyzed where the availability of an environmental resource declined over time . It was observed that with a high degree of intolerance towards members of the out group the degree of segregation in an artificial society while increasing initially became unsustainable and the highly segregated clusters eventually disintegrated .

@highlight Extends Schelling s Segregation Model by considering dwindling habitable land as a resource and increasing intolerance to out group members due to resource scarity.
