 In this paper we consider a robust numerical approximation of a three species fully coupled competition diffusion system of Lotka Volterra type in a two dimensional spatial domain . The model is characterized by the presence of a very small diffusion parameter . If the diffusivity coefficient is sufficiently small a spatially segregated pattern with very thin internal layers occur . For such problems it is a challenging task to develop an efficient numerical method that is also capable of capturing the various transient regimes and fine spatial structures of the solutions . In this paper we develop a high order semi implicit multistep scheme based on the Lagrange temporal interpolation coupled with a conforming finite element method for the nonlinear competition diffusion problem in two spatial dimensions . A major advantage of the proposed method is that it is essentially linear in terms of the current time step values while its order of convergence is higher . Moreover the couplings of current step values of the unknowns are one sided which is a very desirable property in terms of algorithmic efficiency since each unknown is solved sequentially . This avoids solving for all unknowns simultaneously . We also discuss the stability and convergence of the proposed schemes . Furthermore various simulations are carried out to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method in simulating different type of interaction patterns such as the onset of spiral like coexistence pattern complex spatio temporal patterns and competitive exclusion of the species .

@highlight We consider robust numerical approximation of competition diffusion partial differential equations in two dimensional spatial domain of Lotka Volterra type with small diffusion parameter.
@highlight We propose a finite element based higher order semi implicit method to solve such problems.
@highlight A major advantage of the proposed method is that it is essentially linear in terms of the current time step values no need for nonlinear iterative treatment while its order of convergence is higher. This is a great improvement in contrast to the standard semi implicit methods which are at most first order accurate.
@highlight The proposed method is a staggered method in which the computation for each species is treated sequentially and separately without compromising both accuracy and stability.
@highlight Various numerical simulations demonstrate the capability and performance of the methods in representing the highly complex features of the solution.
