 In contrast to a non regulated market a regulated market can be defined as a market affected by external factors which cause abnormal behaviors in market prices . Nevertheless these behaviors are not enough to ignore the fundamental principles of finance while many econophysicists do so . In this paper it is considered that returns are driven by a finite moment log stable process in the most general form . Then a potential function is used to model the rest of the regulations . Consequently the pricing problem is formulated as an integral whose kernel can be found solving an inhomogeneous space fractional diffusion equation . Given the inhomogeneous equation with the Riesz Feller fractional derivative and the potential function a new path integral seems to be necessary to formulate the solution of the kernel equation . Thus a Generalized Fractional Path Integral will be derived and an Asymmetric Fractional Path Integral Monte Carlo algorithm will be developed to find the results . Finally a daily European call option is priced in a real market with a daily price limit rule and the maximum and minimum price for a typical contract is calculated as some example applications of the proposed approach .

@highlight Option pricing in a regulated market is formulated as an integral whose kernel can be found solving an inhomogeneous space fractional diffusion equation.
@highlight A Generalized Fractional Path Integral is introduced to formulate the solution of the inhomogeneous space fractional diffusion equation.
@highlight An Asymmetric Fractional Path Integral Monte Carlo algorithm is developed to solve the introduced generalized fractional path integral numerically.
@highlight The effects of price limit mechanisms on the European call option price in a real market is discussed based on the proposed approach as an application of the introduced model.
@highlight The maximum and the minimum price of a contract are calculated using the proposed approach as another application for the introduced model.
