 In this paper a Linear Matrix Inequality based approach for designing a robust state feedback controller for a 1 DoF periodically forced impact mechanical oscillator subject to double side rigid barriers constraints and under bounded parametric uncertainties to track another impact oscillator as a master or reference system is proposed . The dynamics of such impact oscillator is defined by a hybrid non autonomous system with impulsive effects for which the impulsive event occurs when the system state encounters the two barriers and the oscillation motion is limited between them . The main idea in the synthesis of the stability conditions lies in the use of the S procedure Lemma and the Finsler Lemma in order to only consider the regions inside which the master slave tracking error evolves . We show that the stability conditions of the tracking error are reformulated by a set of Bilinear Matrix Inequalities . Via the Schur complement Lemma and the Matrix Inversion Lemma a linearization procedure is realized to transform these BMIs into LMIs where the admissible maximum bounds of the parametric uncertainties are maximized . The effectiveness of the proposed feedback controller towards uncertainties is illustrated through simulation results .

@highlight A robust feedback control of a 1 DoF impact mechanical oscillator subject to double side rigid constraints and under bounded parametric uncertainty is considered.
@highlight The control is achieved such that the impact mechanical oscillator as a slave tracks a master impact oscillator adopted as a reference model.
@highlight The dynamics of the master slave tracking error is described by a non autonomous system with impulsive effects.
@highlight We use the S procedure Lemma and the Finsler Lemma to only consider the regions within which the system state evolves and hence to develop BMI stability conditions.
@highlight We use the Schur complement Lemma and the Matrix Inversion Lemma to transform these BMIs into LMIs.
@highlight A portfolio of numerical simulations is presented to illustrate the master slave tracking.
