 We consider merger of two parallel toroidal atomic Bose Einstein condensates with different vorticities in a three dimensional trap . In the tunnel coupling regime Josephson vortices emerge in the barrier between the superflows . When the barrier is gradually eliminated we observe essentially three dimensional evolution of quantum vortices which may include the development of the Kelvin Helmholtz instability at the interface between the rings in the framework of a weakly dissipative Gross Pitaevskii equation . An initially more populated ring carrying a persistent current can drag an initially non rotating less populated one into the same vortex state . The final state of the condensate crucially depends on an initial population imbalance in the double ring set as well as on the shape of the 3D trapping potential oblate or prolate . In the prolate configuration robust 3D

@highlight Quantization of superflows in coupled vertically stacked toroidal condensates is determined by two types of topological excitations vertically oriented vortex lines located in the central hole of the toroidal structure and radially oriented Josephson vortices rotational fluxons located in the low density region between the rings .
@highlight The relaxation of the merging rings is driven by substantially 3D nonlinear dynamics of the vortex lines corresponding to persistent currents and Josephson vortices.
@highlight The final state of the condensate crucially depends on an initial population imbalance in the double ring set as well as on the shape of the 3D trapping potential oblate or prolate.
@highlight In the oblate axially squeezed configuration a ring with non zero angular momentum can impose its quantum state onto the originally non rotating ring only above a well defined critical value of the population imbalance.
@highlight Instead of the development of the classical Kelvin Helmholtz instability at the interface of the merging persistent currents in a prolate potential trap sufficiently elongated in the axial direction we observe the formation of nonlinear robust hybrid vortex structures.
