 The classical master slave configuration allows synchronizing pairs of unidirectionally coupled systems or oscillators in a relatively easy manner . However it has been found that this scheme has a limitation for certain systemsincluding those with chaotic dynamicsthis scheme fails to induce synchronization . Consequently this paper focuses on deriving a potential solution for this limitation . In particular the manuscript presents a modified master slave scheme in which the static controller of the original scheme has been replaced by a first order dynamic controller . The stability of the synchronous solution is investigated by using the Lyapunov theory for perturbed systems and also by the well known Master Stability Function approach . Two application examples are considered namely synchronization of harmonic oscillators and synchronization of chaotic systems . For both examples a comparison between the performance of the classical scheme and the proposed configuration is provided . Additionally the proposed synchronization scheme is experimentally validated with electronic circuits which emulate the chaotic dynamics of Rssler system . Ultimately the results presented here show that the onset of synchronization in unidirectionally coupled systems is enhanced if the interaction between the systems is dynamic rather than static .

@highlight This work presents a modified master slave scheme in which the interaction between the master and slave is indirect via a dynamic coupling which is described by a first order linear system.
@highlight The main advantage of the proposed scheme is that it can induce synchronization in the coupled systems even in the cases where the classical master slave scheme with static coupling fails to synchronize the systems.
@highlight The stability of the synchronous solution in the modified master slave scheme is investigated by using Lyapunov theory for perturbed systems and the Master Stability Function approach.
@highlight The performance of the proposed synchronization scheme is experimentally validated with electronic circuits.
