 In this paper a three layer neuronal network is studied to consider different complex connections between the neurons . In the nervous system the communication between the neurons is mostly based on the electrical and chemical synapses . However extracellular electric fields can induce a magnetic flux which can lead to indirect neural communications by means of electromagnetic induction . This mode of coupling is called ephaptic coupling which here is used between the layer . To describe the coupling within the layers the electrical and chemical synapses are defined . We also take into account the partial time delays to reflect the required time for information transmission through chemical synapses . Particularly we consider partial and full time delays as well as strong and weak coupling strengths . It is shown that three layers typically have opposite synchronization properties in the strong and weak coupling regimes . Specifically when the coupling is strong the top and bottom layers are synchronous while the middle layer is desynchronous . But when the coupling is weak the middle layer is synchronous while the top and bottom layers are desynchronous . In overall the most synchrony is obtained when the weak coupling is accompanied with partial time delays in chemical communications . Our research sheds new light on the complex interplay between the time delay the ephaptic coupling and the synchronization in neuronal networks .

@highlight We consider three layer neuronal networks to study complex connections between the neurons.
@highlight Extracellular electric fields induce a magnetic flux that leads to indirect neural communication.
@highlight We therefore use ephaptic coupling between the layers of neuronal networks.
@highlight Within the layers we use electrical and chemical synapses to describe the coupling.
@highlight We show that the three layers typically have opposite synchronization properties.
@highlight The overall synchrony is the strongest when weak coupling is accompanied with partial time delays in chemical communication.
