 This paper studies a contemporary event of the sunken Argentinian submarine ARA San Juan S 42 in November 2017 . The submarines wreckage was found one year later on the seabed off the southern Atlantic coast of Argentina with its imploded debris scattered on the seabed at the depth of about 900 meters under sea level . We develop computational mechanics modeling and conduct supercomputer simulations for this study using the versatile software LS DYNA as the platform . We first revisit underwater implosion phenomena by the test of pressurizing a plugged aluminum cylinder in a water tank and match the patterns of structural deformations as the important way to validate our computational methodology and model selections . Furthermore the radiations of the implosion shocks are computed and compared with those in the literature . Using a base model for the submarine we are able to perform event reconstruction for the underwater implosion of ARA San Juan S 42 . Our work can encompass the features of structural fracture and break up which were not included in the earlier studies . Furthermore we show that by adding ring stiffeners we can delay the onset of underwater implosion by increasing the tolerance of more water depth for the submarine . All the dynamic nonlinear implosion phenomena can be visualized by video animations obtained from our supercomputer simulations which are also compared with an artistically rendered video animation .

@highlight Addresses a contemporary event for which there is wide interest.
@highlight Our approach is computational modeling using the advanced computer modeling software LS DYNA which is comprehensive and can help theory building.
@highlight We are able to develop the right physics and then use supercomputer to simulate the PDEs and visualize the nonlinear dynamics of the underwater implosion process by video animations to see how the structural fracture and breakup taking place.
@highlight By using LS DYNA our models and simulations can incorporate the fracture mechanical features which were mostly absent in previous works.
@highlight We are able to provide an extensive set of graphical comparisons between computational mechanics and an artistically rendered movie which might eventually help movie making look even more realistic.
@highlight Our work can facilitate future underwater vehicle designs to better withstand implosions in deep water.
