 The Rate Control Protocol uses explicit feedback from routers to control network congestion . RCP estimates its fair rate from two forms of feedback rate mismatch and queue size . An important design question that remains open in RCP is whether the presence of queue size feedback is helpful given the presence of feedback from rate mismatch . The feedback from routers to end systems is time delayed and may introduce instabilities and complex nonlinear dynamics . Delay dynamical systems are often modeled using delay differential equations to facilitate a mathematical analysis of their performance and dynamics . The RCP models with and without queue size feedback give rise to two distinct nonlinear delay differential equations . Earlier work on this design question was based on methods of linear systems theory . For further progress it is quite natural to employ nonlinear techniques . In this study we approach this design question using tools from control and bifurcation theory . The analytical results reveal that the removal of queue feedback could enhance both stability and convergence properties . Further using Poincar normal forms and center manifold theory we investigate two nonlinear properties namely the type of the Hopf bifurcation and the asymptotic stability of the bifurcating limit cycles . We show that the presence of queue feedback in the RCP can lead to a sub critical Hopf bifurcation which would give rise either to the onset of large amplitude limit cycles or to unstable limit cycles . Whereas in the absence of queue feedback the Hopf bifurcation is always super critical and the bifurcating limit cycles are stable . The analysis is complemented with computations and some packet level simulations as well . In terms of design our study suggests that the presence of both forms of feedback may be detrimental to the performance of RCP .

@highlight Using tools from control and bifurcation theory we study whether the queue size feedback in Rate Control Protocol RCP is useful.
@highlight We conduct stability convergence and bifurcation analysis for RCP with and without queue size feedback.
@highlight Removal of queue size feedback could enhance both the stability and convergence properties of RCP.
@highlight The presence of queue size feedback in RCP can lead to a sub critical Hopf bifurcation which is undesirable.
@highlight Queue size feedback is detrimental to the performance of the RCP protocol.
