 Population persistence and extinction are the most important issues in ecosystems . In the past a few decades various deterministic and stochastic mathematical models with Allee effect have been extensively studied . However in both population and disease dynamics the question of how structural transitions caused by internal or external environmental noise emerge has not been fully elucidated . In this paper we introduce a semi analytical method to explore the asymptotically convergent behavior of a stochastic avian influenza model with Allee effect . First by introducing noise to the model we observe numerically a significant transition from bistability to monostability . Next a corresponding Fokker Planck equation is obtained to analytically describe the probability density distributions with long time evolution in order to reveal the transition characteristics . Ratio of the approximately convergent probabilities for the two key equilibria derived from the FPK equation confirms the stability transition observed by previous numerical simulations . Moreover bifurcation analysis in two important parameters demonstrates that noise not only reduces the parametric zone of sustaining bistability but also drives the system to exhibit different monostabilities which correspond numerically to population persistence and extinction at different parametric intervals respectively . Furthermore noise induces higher probabilities for the system to sustain persistence instead of extinction in this model . Our results could provide some suggestions to improve wildlife species survival in more realistic situations where noise exists .

@highlight Aiming at the cross disciplinary field of the influence of stochasticity on epidemic problems our paper focuses on the stability transition different from previous studies which mostly dedicate to stability sustaining.
@highlight With a semi analytically method our systematic explorations with key parameters demonstrate that noise has brought great changes to the dynamic behaviors of the biological system.
@highlight Noise not only highly reduces the domain of parameters for sustaining bistablility but also drives the system to exhibit different monostabilities which refers to population persistence or extinction respectively at different parametric intervals.
