 We present a comprehensive study of nonlinear resonant modal energy scattering and passive vibration suppression in a linear cantilever beam with vibro impact nonlinear energy sinks attached to it . It is well known that vibro impacts are a strong source of non smooth nonlinearity resulting in rapid and intense multi scale energy scattering from low to high frequencies in the modal space of the beam . We present a direct correlation between such low to high frequency nonlinear energy scattering induced by vibro impacts and vibration suppression of the beam vibrations under both sweep and constant frequency harmonic excitations . In particular we study the intensity of the collisions between the tip of the beam and the particles of the VI NESs by means of an event driven method based on an explicit variable time step integration scheme and relate the dynamics of the integrated beam VI NES system to the induced resonant energy scattering from low beam modes to higher ones . On this basis the effects of the mass ratio and clearance between the absorber and the beam on the resonant energy scattering are presented . Our aim is to perform predictive design of the VI NESs for effective and robust vibration mitigation of the beam response . To this end we perform optimization studies on the mass ratio and clearance between the absorber and beam for the case of single and multiple VI NESs and identify regions of optimal suppression . Besides since the single VI NES is only effective in a limited frequency and amplitude range as its dynamics is energy dependent using multiple VI NESs with optimized parameters can extend the frequency range of effective vibration suppression rendering the resulting vibration mitigation more robust to variations of the applied excitations .

@highlight An event driven method based on an explicit variable step integration scheme is used.
@highlight The VI NES collisions are classified into two categories according to their intensity.
@highlight The effects of the mass ratio clearance on the resonant energy scattering are given.
@highlight Optimization studies for single and multiple VI NESs systems were performed.
@highlight The advantages of multiple dissimilar VI NESs on vibration suppression are given.
