 The long term dynamics of perturbed Keplerian motion is usually analyzed in simplified models as part of the preliminary design of artificial satellites missions . It is commonly approached by averaging procedures that deal with literal expressions in expanded form . However there are cases in which the correct description of the dynamics may require full contrary to simplified potential models as is for instance the case of low altitude high inclination lunar orbits . In these cases dealing with literal expressions is yet possible with the help of modern symbolic algebra systems for which memory handling is no longer an issue . Still the efficient evaluation of the averaged expressions related to a high fidelity potential is often jeopardized for the expanded character of the output of the automatic algebraic process which unavoidably provides huge expressions that commonly comprise tens of thousands of literal terms . Rearrangement of the output to generate an efficient numerical code may solve the problem but automatization of this kind of post processing is a non trivial task due to the ad hoc heuristic simplification procedures involved in the optimization process . However in those cases in which the coupling of different perturbations is not of relevance for the analysis the averaging procedure may preserve the main features of the structure of the potential model thus avoiding the need of the typical blind computer based brut force perturbation approach . Indeed we show how standard recursions in the literature may be used to efficiently replace the brut force approach in this way avoiding the need of further simplification to improve performance evaluation . In particular Kaulas seminal recursion formulas for the gravity potential reveal clearly superior to the use of both expanded expressions and other recursions more recently proposed in the literature . Thus after making a general assessment on the computational efficiency of the different approaches to compute the zonal gravitational potential in mean elements the need of using high degrees of the gravitational potential for mission design purposes is illustrated for the case of a low lunar orbit .

@highlight Kaula s recurrences for long term geopotential motion are discussed.
@highlight They show better performance over other recursions in the literature.
@highlight They are useful in exploring analytically the long term dynamics.
@highlight They help in disclosing the required complexity of the dynamical model.
