 By using both a phase field approach and a modified level set approach two multiphase numerical models are proposed and compared in this paper to investigate the ferrodroplet deformation and merging process in a non magnetic viscous medium under the influence of uniform magnetic fields . The finite element method is utilized for the spatial discretization of both numerical models . The numerical results show excellent agreement with the analytical solutions in the simple axisymmetric setting . The effects of different magnetic bond numbers and magnetic susceptibility on the deformation of ferrodroplets are systematically investigated . The coalescence process in which two small ferrodroplets merge into a single larger droplet under uniform magnetic fields is also studied by using both the phase field approach and the modified level set approach . Moreover the attraction phenomenon between two ferrodroplets which was previously discovered in numerical experiments is observed in our numerical tests . By comparing with analytical solutions our study demonstrates that the diffuse interface approach performs better than the modified level set approach when there is large topological deformation of the ferrodroplet . Several other important aspects including the evolution of the flow field the magnetic energy distribution the spurious flows near the interfaces and conservation of mass in both approaches are studied as well .

@highlight Two efficient and accurate new Rosensweig models are proposed and compared.
@highlight One uses a phase field approach. The other one uses a modified level set approach.
@highlight They are used to investigate the ferrodroplet deformation and merging process immersed in a non magnetic viscous medium under uniform magnetic fields.
@highlight The effect of different bond numbers and magnetic susceptibility on the ferrodroplet shape is investigated.
@highlight Furthermore several other important aspects are illustrated including the evolution of the flow field comparison between the two models the magnetic energy distribution and the spurious flow near the interface.
