 In this paper the reliability analysis of vibro impact system with both randomly fluctuating restoring and damping terms is studied by a modified path integration method . Specifically the Ivanov nonsmooth transformation technique is adopted to transform the vibro impact system into the system without barrier then the modified PI application on vibro impact systems is applied which is based on the Gaussian closure method and the localized approximation of moment function . According to the first passage theory the reliability function the first passage probability density function and the mean first passage time are numerically calculated . In the framework of our numerical results the influences of different random restoring terms random damping terms and impact conditions on the systems reliability are discussed . The modified PI results are compared with the Monte Carlo Simulation results which shows that the proposed PI method can not only provide sufficiently accurate results to observe the weak influence of parameters but also has obvious advantages in computational efficiency .

@highlight Reliability analysis of vibro impact system under random excitations is meaningful but seldom reported before and this articles study is about it.
@highlight The restoring and damping terms may exhibit some degree of random fluctuation in certain types of mechanical structure so this paper discussed the influence of random varying restoring and damping terms on the systems reliability. The influence of impact conditions on the systems reliability is also studied and the numerical results are quite abundant.
@highlight The research method is a recently proposed path integration PI method which is specially modified and some procedures are quite innovative. The comparison of Monte Carlo simulation MCS shows that the numerical PI results are accurate enough to observe the weak influence of parameters on the reliability. Whats more the PI method has significant advantage in efficiency when dealing with this type of system.
