 Many vector borne disease epidemic models neglect the fact that in modern human civilization social awareness as well as self defence systems are overwhelming against advanced propagation of the disease . News is becoming more effortlessly accessible through social media and mobile apps while apparatuses for disease prevention are inclined to be more abundant and affordable . Here we study a simple hostvector model in which media triggered social awareness and seasonality in vector breeding are taken into account . There appears a certain threshold indicating the alarming outbreak the number of infective human individuals above which shall actuate the self defence systems for the susceptible subpopulation . A model where the infection rate revolves in the likelihood of limited medical access perceiving the disease as being easily curable and overwhelming hungrier vectors is proposed . Further discoveries are made from undertaking disparate time scales in human and vector population . The resulting slowfast system discloses notable dynamics in which solution trajectories confine to a slow manifold and the critical manifold before finally ending up at stable equilibria . How coinciding the slow manifold with the critical manifold enhances periodic forcing is also studied . The finding on hysteresis loops gives insights into how defining an alarming outbreak critically perturbs the basic reproductive number which later helps keep the incidence cycle on small magnitudes .

@highlight Epidemic model with periodic forcing and vectorhost lifespan ratio variation.
@highlight Two models for the infection rate including social awareness among susceptible hosts
@highlight Existence behavior and stability of periodic solutions with respect to the periodic forcing amplitude and adiabatic parameter.
@highlight Coinciding the slow and critical manifold giving birth to possible assimilation with lightly fluctuating data.
@highlight Hysteresis loops and insights for possible control interventions.
