 This article is concerned with the effects of time varying impulses on exponential stability to a unique equilibrium point of inertial Bidirectional Associative Memories neural network with mixed time varying delays . A suitable variable transformation is chosen to transform the original system into a system of first order differential equations . The concept of homeomorphism has been implemented to find a distributed delay dependent sufficient condition which assures that the system has a unique equilibrium point . In order to study the impulsive effects on stability problems a time varying impulses including stabilizing and destabilizing impulses are considered with the transformed system . Based on the matrix measure approach and an extended impulsive differential inequality for a time varying delayed system we have derived sufficient criteria in matrix measure form which ensure the exponential stability of the system towards an equilibrium point for two classes of activation functions . Further different convergence rates of the systems trajectory have been discussed for the cases of time varying stabilizing and destabilizing impulses using the concept of an average impulsive interval . Finally the efficiency of the theoretical results has been illustrated by providing two numerical examples .

@highlight Using the concept of homeomorphism a sufficient criterion for ensuring a unique equilibrium point has been derived for the inertial BAM neural networks with mixed time varying delays.
@highlight The novel concept of average impulsive interval has been applied to remove the requirement of upper or lower bounds of impulsive interval. Based on matrix measure approach and an extended impulsive inequality the exponential stability criteria including averaging impulsive interval have been derived for two classes of activation functions.
@highlight The convergence rates of the system s trajectories are discussed in detail for different impulsive strengths and distinct classes of activation functions.
@highlight All theoretical results of this article are numerically verified by giving two examples.
