 Structural vibrations are very common in aerospace and mechanical engineering systems where dynamic analysis of modern aerospace structures and industrial machines has become an indispensable step in their design . Suppression of unwanted vibrations and their exploitation for energy harvesting at the same time would be the most desirable scenario . The dynamical system presented in this communication is based on a discrete model of energy harvesting device realized in such a manner as to achieve both vibration suppression and harvesting of vibration energy by introducing the nonlinear energy sink concept . The mechanical model is formed as a two degree of freedom nonlinear oscillator with an oscillating magnet and harmonic base excitation . The corresponding mathematical model is based on the system of nonlinear nonhomogeneous Duffing type differential equations . To explore complex dynamical behaviour of the presented model periodic solutions and their bifurcations are found by using the incremental harmonic balance and continuation methods . For the detection of unstable periodic orbits the Floquet theory is applied and an interesting harmonic response of the presented nonlinear dynamical model is detected . The main advantage of the presented approach is its ability to obtain approximated periodic responses in terms of Fourier series and estimate the voltage output of an energy harvester for a system with strong nonlinearity . The accuracy of the presented methodology is verified by comparing the results obtained in this work with those obtained by a standard numerical integration method and results from the literature . Numerical examples show the effects of different physical parameters on amplitude frequency response amplitude base amplitude and time response curves where a qualitative change is explored and studied in detail . Presented theoretical results demonstrate that the proposed system has advanced performance in both system requirements vibration suppression and energy harvesting .

@highlight Nonlinear energy sink energy harvesting device based on coupled Duffing oscillators is proposed.
@highlight Frequency amplitude and force amplitude responses are investigated by the incremental harmonic balance and continuation methods.
@highlight Bifurcation points and unstable periodic solutions branches are detected.
@highlight Short time energy localization to NES device is noticed.
@highlight The influence of the nonlinear stiffness and resistance load on energy harvesting.
