 The study of regular and chaotic Rayleigh Bnard convective motions in methanol and water is made . The stationary mode of convection is shown to be the preferred one at the onset of convection in the case of both the liquids . Using a higher order truncated Fourier series representation we arrive at the energy conserving penta modal Lorenz model and then the tri modal Lorenz model is obtained as a limiting case of it . To keep the study analytical the Ginzburg Landau model is derived from the penta modal Lorenz model . It is shown that the tri and the penta modal Lorenz models predict exactly the same results leading to the conclusion that the tri modal Lorenz model is a good enough truncated model for a weakly nonlinear study of convection . The Rayleigh numbers at which the onset of regular convective and chaotic motions occur are reported for both methanol and water . The behavior of the dynamical system is studied using the spectrum of Lyapunov exponents the maximum Lyapunov exponent the bifurcation diagram and the phase space plots . The Hopf bifurcation Rayleigh number is obtained analytically . It is shown that the thresholds for onset of regular and chaotic motions are smaller in the case of methanol compared to water . Another very important finding of the paper is to show the existence of a developing region for chaos before becoming fully developed .

@highlight Regular chaotic and periodic Rayleigh Benard convective motions in methanol and water are reported.
@highlight The comparison of heat transport between water and methanol is presented.
@highlight The merits of methanol and the demerits of water as coolants in thermal systems are documented.
@highlight From the study it is evident that methanol is stable in regular and periodic regimes and quite vigorously active in the chaotic regime compared to water.
@highlight The percentage of enhanced heat transport in water compared to methanol is just around 0.17 .
@highlight The possibility of having a transition region between regular convection and chaotic motions is demonstrated.
