 This study aims to investigate the behaviors of the potential earthquake precursors such as Total Electron Content daytime nighttime Land Surface Temperature and aerosols before and after the 2013 Mw 7.7 Awaran earthquake . TEC values were obtained from Global Positioning System measurements and LST and aerosol values were retrieved from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer instrument aboard the Terra and Aqua satellites respectively . In order to detect the anomalies moving median method was used in TEC analyses and 2 interval was utilized in LST and Aerosol Optical Depth analyses as anomaly indicator . TEC anomalies were identified 3 days and 5 days before the earthquake . In daytime nighttime LST analyses three regions of interest for spatial analyses were determined including epicenter 10km impact area around the epicenter and Modified Mercalli Intensity 7.5 contour which was presented in the United States Geological Survey s shake map . Different anomalous days of LST were observed from these three regions of interest . In AOD analysis only MMI 7.5 contour was considered due to its low spatial resolution . The anomaly in AOD values was observed on 29.09.2013 5 days after the earthquake . However the abnormal behavior of AOD on 21.09.2013 was consistent with GPS TEC anomaly . Furthermore considering daytime nighttime LST values on epicenter and 10km impact area we observed a systematic increase culminated near the earthquake event and a decrease after the earthquake . On the contrary a systematic decrease and then increase of the AOD values were identified . The obtained results showed that TEC LST and AOD were important potential precursors for Earthquake prediction however further developments on methods data types and statistical analyses are still required .

@highlight GPS TEC daytime nighttime LST and MODIS aerosols were examined considering Sep 24 2013 Pakistan Earthquake.
@highlight TEC anomalies were identified 3 days and 5 days before the earthquake.
@highlight Different anomalous days of LST were observed from three regions of interest.
@highlight The anomaly in AOD values was observed 5 days after the earthquake.
@highlight Abnormality behavior of AOD 3 days before the earthquake was consistent with GPS TEC anomaly.
