 Wind temperature relative humidity and aerosol mass concentration were monitored simultaneously in Wuhan China . Several observations were found after analyzing the physical fields of these data . It was obvious that weak pressure and saddle patterns occurred during fog haze episodes . An inversion layer occurred before heavy fog haze events and became thicker during fog haze events . The boundary layer structure index was relatively higher during fog haze days and had a significant negative correlation with the planetary boundary layer height and turbulence parameters . Wind speeds were generally less than 5m s and rarely exceeded this speed on the selected polluted days . Turbulence variation characteristics had special representations especially before fog haze events . Turbulence intensities always reached abnormal peak values before fog haze processes while the intensities remained steady before and during pollution processes with low relative humidity . Both the turbulence kinetic energy and momentum flux decreased to near zero before heavy fog haze processes . Momentum flux often presented abnormal disturbances before heavy fog haze processes . These disturbances were often in an active phase before and during pollution processes with low relative humidity a situation that is not similar to fog haze events that maintained high relative humidity . There was a feedback mechanism between solar radiation and aerosol mass concentration and the occurrence of turbulence anomalies may be related to the regulation of atmospheric circulation by wave flow interaction . The results presented in this study suggest that the turbulence parameters which display anomalies before the occurrence of heavy fog haze processes under the background of inversion layers and stable atmospheric patterns can serve as a means of predicting disastrous weather conditions such as fog haze pollution .

@highlight The importance of anticyclonic circulation pattern in pollution process.
@highlight The relationship between turbulence parameters and boundary layer.
@highlight Turbulent activity is often very weak prior to the heavy pollution.
@highlight Combination analysis of different scales for circulation and boundary layer.
