 Long term natural and anthropogenic aerosol characteristics over the United Arab Emirates are investigated in this study . Aerosol characteristics were analyzed using data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer local meteorological stations and the Aerosol Robotic Network ground based station during 20062015 . AOD values significantly increase during the spring and summer seasons and are associated with dust loading during major dust events . The mean annual variation of aerosol loading indicates about a 4.32 and a 11.36 change in the AOD and ngstrm Exponent respectively during the study period . Monthly trends show larger AOD and AE variability 5.4 and 37.8 respectively with higher aerosol concentrations during the summer . In general from November to March an upward trend in aerosol characteristics is observed from 2011 to 2015 compared to 20062010 . In contrast a neutral to weak decrease in AOD measurements are observed during AprilSeptember . Overall this trend variability is sustained by natural aerosol emissions throughout the year . Meanwhile a significant increase in AE was measured from May to August of 20112015 compared to 20062010 . This is an indication of an increment of anthropogenic emissions from 2011 to 2015 . A correlation between several meteorological parameters and MODIS measurements was performed to investigate the effect of local meteorological conditions on AOD from 2006 to 2015 over the UAE . Some statistical correlation was observed between AOD wind speed and air temperature . A weak correlation was observed between temperature relative humidity and AOD while a strong correlation was observed between wind speed and AOD . Dry soil formed due to a lack of rainfall along with high summer temperatures and high speed winds which stimulate dust aerosol loading and lifetime in the atmosphere . Aerosol characteristics including dominant aerosols were identified over the UAE using the Mezaria AERONET station . Air mass flow towards the UAE from the North West and West directions moves over highly polluted regions and desert areas . Coarse mode aerosol particles dominate over the UAE during MarchJune associated with the dust season while a high loading of fine mode particles is mostly observed during SeptemberJanuary .

@highlight Aerosol mixing and loading over highly urbanized semiarid countries.
@highlight Aerosols analysis using MODIS AERONET and meteorological data.
@highlight Seasonal variation of aerosol over United Arab Emirates during 20052015.
@highlight Dominant aerosols and particles characterization.
@highlight Effect of local meteorological conditions on aerosol loadings.
