 Multi sensor remote sensing applications consistently gain importance boosted by a growing number of freely available earth observation data increasing computing capacity and increasingly complex algorithms that need as temporally dense data as possible . Using data provided by different sensors can greatly improve the temporal resolution of time series fill data gaps and thus improve the quality of land cover monitoring applications . However multi sensor approaches are often adversely affected by different spectral characteristics of the sensing instruments leading to inconsistencies in downstream products . Spectral harmonization i.e . the transformation of one sensor into the spectral domain of another sensor may reduce these inconsistencies . It simplifies workflows increases the reliability of subsequently derived multi sensor products and may also enable the generation of new products that are not possible with the initial spectral definition . In this paper we compare the effect of multivariate spectral harmonization techniques on the inter sensor reflectance consistency and derived products such as spectral indices or land cover classifications . We simulated surface reflectance data of Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2A from airborne hyperspectral data to eliminate any sources of error originating from unequal acquisition geometries illumination or atmospheric state . We evaluate different methods based on linear quadratic and random forest regression as well as linear interpolation and predict not only matching but also unilaterally missing bands . We additionally consider material dependent spectral characteristics in the harmonization process by using separate transformation functions for spectral clusters of the input dataset . Our results suggest that spectral harmonization is useful to improve multi sensor consistency of remote sensing data and subsequently derived products especially if multiple transformation functions are incorporated . There is a strong dependency between harmonization performance and the similarity of source and target sensor s spectral characteristics . For spectrally transforming Landsat 8 to Sentinel 2A we achieved the lowest radiometric inter sensor deviations with 50 spectral clusters and linear regression . Based on simulated data deviations are below 1.7 reflectance within the red edge spectral region and below 0.3 reflectance for the remaining bands . Regarding spectral indices our results show a reduction of inter sensor deviation to 38 of the initial error for NDVI and to 43 for EVI . Furthermore we computed the REIP with an accuracy of 3.1nm from Sentinel 2 adapted Landsat 8 data . An exemplary multispectral classification use case revealed an increasing inter sensor consistency of classification results from 92.3 to 97.3 mean error . Applied to time series of real Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2 data we observed similar trends albeit intermingled with non sensor induced inconsistencies .

@highlight Spectral harmonization reduces differences between Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2 images.
@highlight Harmonization technique developed that respects different land cover characteristics.
@highlight Approach allows to predict unilaterally missing spectral bands e.g. the red edge.
@highlight Deviations 1.7 reflectance within red edge and 0.3 reflectance for other bands.
@highlight Software freely available and also applicable to other multispectral sensors.
