 Spatio temporal fusion is a technique used to produce images with both fine spatial and temporal resolution . Generally the principle of existing spatio temporal fusion methods can be characterized by a unified framework of prediction based on two parts the known fine spatial resolution images and the fine spatial resolution increment predicted from the available coarse spatial resolution increment that is the difference between the coarse spatial resolution images acquired at the known and prediction times . Owing to seasonal changes and land cover changes there always exist large differences between images acquired at different times resulting in a large increment and further great uncertainty in downscaling . In this paper a virtual image pair based spatio temporal fusion approach was proposed to deal with this problem . VIPSTF is based on the concept of a virtual image pair which is produced based on the available known MODIS Landsat image pairs . We demonstrate theoretically that compared to the known image pairs the VIP is closer to the data at the prediction time . The VIP can capture more fine spatial resolution information directly from known images and reduce the challenge in downscaling . VIPSTF is a flexible framework suitable for existing spatial weighting and spatial unmixing based methods and two versions VIPSTF SW and VIPSTF SU are thus developed . Experimental results on a heterogeneous site and a site experiencing land cover type changes show that both spatial weighting and spatial unmixing based methods can be enhanced by VIPSTF and the advantage is particularly noticeable when the observed image pairs are temporally far from the prediction time . Moreover VIPSTF is free of the need for image pair selection and robust to the use of multiple image pairs . VIPSTF is also computationally faster than the original methods when using multiple image pairs . The concept of VIP provides a new insight to enhance spatio temporal fusion by making fuller use of the observed image pairs and reducing the uncertainty of estimating the fine spatial resolution increment .

@highlight VIPSTF is proposed for spatio temporal fusion based on the new concept of VIP.
@highlight The VIP is closer to the data at the prediction time in the feature space.
@highlight VIPSTF is suitable for spatial weighting and spatial unmixing based methods.
@highlight VIPSTF is especially advantageous when the observed image pairs are temporally far.
@highlight VIPSTF is robust to the use of multiple image pairs and computationally faster.
