 The three dimensional distribution of water vapour around mountainous terrain can be highly variable . This variability can in turn affect local meteorological processes and geodetic techniques to measure ground surface motion . We demonstrate this general problem with the specific issues of a small tropical island Montserrat . Over a period of 17days in December 2014 we made observations using InSAR and GPS techniques together with concurrent atmospheric models using the WRF code . Comparative studies of water vapour distribution and its effect on refractivity were made at high spatial resolution over short distances . Our results show that model simulations of the observed differences in water vapour distribution using WRF is insufficiently accurate . We suggest that better use could be made of the knowledge and observations of local water vapour conditions at different scales specifically the Inter Tropical Convergence Zone the trade wind fields and the mountain flow perhaps using eddy simulation . The annual perturbations of the ITCZ show that the range of humidity is approximately the same expressed as the differential phase of InSAR imaging . Trade wind direction and speed are particularly important at high wind speeds driving vigorous asymmetrical convection over the island s mountains . We also show that the slant angles of radar can follow distinct separate paths through the water vapour field . Our study is novel in demonstrating how synoptic scale features and climate can advise the modelling of mesoscale systems and sub seasonal InSAR imaging on tropical islands .

@highlight A case study over Montserrat mapping water vapour around mountainous terrain
@highlight GPS water vapour and its effect on refractivity for InSAR are determined.
@highlight Slantwise liquid water water vapour and hydrostatic delay are explored using WRF.
@highlight The ITCZ and trade wind asymmetry are used to discuss water vapour field variance.
@highlight We describe a simple toolbox that helps identify good InSAR pairings based on climate.
