 Accurate and high resolution sea ice surface temperature data is of great importance for Arctic climate studies . However the validation of high resolution IST data using in situ measurements in polar sea ice regions is lacking . This study assesses the accuracy of three split window and two single channel methods based on Landsat 8 thermal infrared imagery at 100m resolution over Arctic sea ice regions . The SW methods are proposed by Jin et al . Jimnez Muoz et al . and Du et al . . The SC methods are proposed by Jimnez Muoz et al . and Barsi et al . . IST data derived from 58 scenes of the Landsat 8 images were compared with coincident in situ ice skin temperatures and near surface air temperatures as measured by a combination of Ice Mass Balance buoys Snow and Ice Mass Balance Array buoys and automatic weather stations . SW Du offers the best accuracy when compared with the skin temperature 2.08K and near surface air temperature . SC Barsi ranks second with a bias of 1.55K and RMSE of 2.40K for the skin temperature . As for precision IST from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer has best performance 1.69K followed by SW Du SW JM and SC Barsi . The Landsat IST outperforms the MODIS IST in narrow lead areas owing to its better spatial resolution and SW JM and SC Barsi methods agree best with the MODIS IST in leads and marginal ice zone scenes respectively . As all three SW methods are constrained by banding effects with different degrees in a lead scene they are not recommended to be applied on an image scene with severe banding artifacts . The small bias and high correlation between skin temperature and near surface air temperature prove the capability of using near surface air temperature as a substitute for validating a satellite IST data if skin temperature data are not available .

@highlight IST from Landsat 8 TIRS images is accurate enough for sea ice related use.
@highlight Split window algorithm has better accuracy than single channel method.
@highlight Fine resolution IST images can capture small details on sea ice regions.
@highlight Banding artifacts in TIRS images still contaminate IST maps.
