 Synthetic Aperture Radar amplitude measurements from spaceborne sensors are sensitive to surface roughness conditions near their radar wavelength . These backscatter signals are often exploited to assess the roughness of plowed agricultural fields and water surfaces and less so to complex heterogeneous geological surfaces . The bedload of mixed sand and gravel bed rivers can be considered a mixture of smooth and rough surfaces . Here we assess backscatter gradients over a large high mountain alluvial river in the eastern Central Andes with aerially exposed sand and gravel bedload using X band TerraSAR X TanDEM X C band Sentinel 1 and L band ALOS 2 PALSAR 2 radar scenes . In a first step we present theory and hypotheses regarding radar response to an alluvial channel bed . We test our hypotheses by comparing backscatter responses over vegetation free endmember surfaces from inside and outside of the active channel bed area . We then develop methods to extract smoothed backscatter gradients downstream along the channel using kernel density estimates . In a final step the local variability of sand dominated patches is analyzed using Fourier frequency analysis by fitting stretched exponential and power law regression models to the 2 D power spectrum of backscatter amplitude . We find a large range in backscatter depending on the heterogeneity of contiguous smooth and rough patches of bedload material . The SAR amplitude signal responds primarily to the fraction of smooth sand bedload but is further modified by gravel elements . The sensitivity to gravel is more apparent in longer wavelength L band radar whereas C and X band is sensitive only to sand variability . Because the spatial extent of smooth sand patches in our study area is typically 50m only higher resolution sensors are useful for power spectrum analysis . Our results show the potential for mapping sand gravel transitions and local geomorphic complexity in alluvial rivers with aerially exposed bedload using SAR amplitude .

@highlight SAR amplitude data are used to measure alluvial channel bed roughness.
@highlight Backscatter gradients are mostly due to changes in smooth sand surface contribution.
@highlight L band SAR has a more dynamic backscatter signal modified by gravel size.
@highlight 5 m resolution SAR can assess localized spatial extents of sand gravel patchiness.
