 The Bekaa Valley in Lebanon currently hosts the highest number of refugees per capita in the world . It is also the primary agricultural production area in the country . Groundwater levels in some regions of the valley have decreased by 15m in the last five years . Water use estimates at the regional and the field scale for this valley are crucial for enhancing resilience and for managing competing sectorial water demands . In this research we derive a novel time series of field scale actual evapotranspiration for the Bekaa Valley using two one source energy balance models for the period 19842017 utilizing local weather data and all available original Level 1 Landsat thermal imagery and Level 2 surface reflectance products . We compare a modified METRIC model with an automated hot and cold pixel identification procedure run in batch mode to pySEBAL a new version of SEBAL which also has its automated anchors pixel selection algorithm . Analysis of 1200 cloud masked and gap filled Landsat derived ET products show that the two models give comparable water use estimates at the seasonal and annual time steps . We estimate an average annual ET of 65253mm over the heavily cultivated valley in the last 34years . Most of the ET is consumed from blue water in the dry season of MayOctober . ET in the wet season of NovemberApril consumes 70 of the precipitation in the Bekaa valley . Annual analysis shows no discernable trend in ET across the valley but there is an increase in irrigated agriculture in the Orontes Basin in the last five years . METRIC yields 15 higher ET than pySEBAL for the non agricultural lands in summer . A water balance analysis shows that groundwater storage in the Litani basin is decreasing at a rate of 33050mmyr

@highlight Full Landsat thermal collection utilized to generate field scale ET in Lebanon.
@highlight Automated anchor pixel selection applied in METRIC and pySEBAL on 1200 scenes.
@highlight Peak water use of 500mcm in the Bekaa is between April and August.
@highlight No trends in time series ET determined for the Bekaa Valley for 19842017.
@highlight Non renewable aquifer depletion ranges from 280 to 380mm per year.
