 This paper presents the forward modelling aspects of the SMOS activities at ECMWF . Several parameterizations of the Community Microwave Emission Modelling Platform are used to simulate L band Brightness Temperatures and compared to the SMOS TBs for 20102011 . We show that simulated TBs are primarily sensitive by order of importance to the soil roughness model the vegetation opacity and the soil dielectric model . In particular best CMEM results are obtained with the simple Wigneron soil roughness model and the Wigneron model for the vegetation opacity . For the soil dielectric model performances of the Wang and Schmugge and the Mironov models are shown to be similar and better than the Dobson model . The Wang and Schmugge model is then used in the next steps of this paper combined with the Wigneron roughness and vegetation models . The paper describes a multi angular multi polarised bias correction method based on a linear rescaling computed at the monthly scale using SMOS observations and ECMWF CMEM re analysed TBs for a four year period . Results show that for 20102013 the seasonal multi angular multi polarisation bias correction approach reduces global RMSE to 7.91K compared to 16.7K before bias correction whereas the mean absolute bias is reduced to 1.39K compared to 11.04K before bias correction . The consistency between the seasonality of simulated and the observed TBs is also improved by using a monthly bias correction leading to correlation values improvement to 0.62 after bias correction compared to 0.56 before . The 20102013 bias correction applied to the 20142016 period at 40 incidence reduces the global RMSE from 15.56K to 8.19K and the mean absolute bias from 10.16K to 2.51K with no impact on the correlation values that remain at 0.61 in both cases . Long term monitoring of SMOS TB is presented covering a 7 year period at both polarisations at 40 incidence angle . Results show that the consistency between SMOS and ECMWF reanalysis based TBs progressively improved between 2010 and 2016 pointing out improvements of level 1 SMOS TB products quality through the SMOS lifetime .

@highlight A forward operator is used to simulate L band brightness temperatures.
@highlight Bias correction corrects differences between observations and model.
@highlight Multi angular and seasonal matching of cumulative distribution function is developed.
@highlight Reanalysis of simulated forward brightness temperature used for SMOS monitoring.
@highlight Long term monitoring of SMOS brightness temperatures shows improved SMOS data quality.
