 Rice growth monitoring using Synthetic Aperture Radar is recognized as a promising approach for tracking the development of this important crop . Accurate spatio temporal information of rice inventories is required for water resource management production risk occurrence and yield forecasting . This research investigates the potential of the proposed Generalized volume scattering model based Radar Vegetation Index for monitoring rice growth at different phenological stages . The GRVI is derived using the concept of a geodesic distance between Kennaugh matrices projected on a unit sphere . We utilized this concept of GD to quantify a similarity measure between the observed Kennaugh matrix and the Kennaugh matrix of a generalized volume scattering model . The similarity measure is then modulated with a factor estimated from the ratio of the minimum to the maximum GD between the observed Kennaugh matrix and the set of elementary targets trihedral cylinder dihedral and narrow dihedral . In this work we utilize a time series of C band quad pol RADARSAT 2 observations over a semi arid region in Vijayawada India . Among the several rice cultivation practices adopted in this region we analyze the growth stages of direct seeded rice and conventional tansplanted rice with the GRVI and crop biophysical parameters viz . Plant Area Index PAI . The GRVI is compared for both rice types against the Radar Vegetation Index proposed by Kim and van Zyl . A temporal analysis of the GRVI with crop biophysical parameters at different phenological stages confirms its trend with the plant growth stages . Also the linear regression analysis confirms that the GRVI outperforms RVI with significant correlations with PAI

@highlight GRVI follows the phenological trend with rice growth.
@highlight GRVI outperforms RVI with a significant correlation with PAI of rice crop.
@highlight PAI estimations from GRVI show promising retrieval accuracy.
@highlight GRVI maps at different growth stages of rice capture the variability in plant growth.
@highlight GRVI discriminates the direct seeded and transplanted rice.
