 Rivers are among the world s most threatened ecosystems . Enabled by the rapid development of drone technology hyperspatial resolution images of fluvial environments are now a common data source used to better understand these sensitive habitats . However the task of image classification remains challenging for this type of imagery and the application of traditional classification algorithms such as maximum likelihood still in common use among the river remote sensing community yields unsatisfactory results . We explore the possibility that a classifier of river imagery based on deep learning methods can provide a significant improvement in our ability to classify fluvial scenes . We assemble a dataset composed of RGB images from 11 rivers in Canada Italy Japan the United Kingdom and Costa Rica . The images were labelled into 5 land cover classes water dry exposed sediment green vegetation senescent vegetation and roads . In total 5 billion pixels were labelled and partitioned for the tasks of training and validation . We develop a novel supervised learning workflow based on the NASNet convolutional neural network called CNN Supervised Classification . First we compare the classification performance of maximum likelihood a multilayer perceptron a random forest and CSC . Results show median F1 scores of 71 78 72 and 95 respectively . Second we train our classifier using data for 5 of 11 rivers . We then predict the validation data for all 11 rivers . For the 5 rivers that were used in model training median F1 scores reach 98 . For the 6 rivers not used in model training median F1 scores are 90 . We reach two conclusions . First in the traditional workflow where images are classified one at a time CSC delivers an unprecedented mix of labour savings and classification F1 scores above 95 . Second deep learning can predict land cover classifications for rivers not used in training . This demonstrates the potential to train a generalised open source deep learning model for airborne river surveys suitable for most rivers out of the box . Research efforts should now focus on further development of a new generation of deep learning classification tools that will encode human image interpretation abilities and allow for fully automated potentially real time interpretation of riverine landscape images .

@highlight Deep Learning can classify RGB river imagery to 90 99 F1.
@highlight This result exceeds the state of the art in fluvial scene classification.
@highlight Deep Learning models can encode river features that transfer to new rivers.
@highlight Hyper and multispectral data are not required.
@highlight We provide open source GIS integration via PyQGIS.
