 An accurate estimation of biomass burning emissions is partially limited by the lack of knowledge of fire burning phase . In recent years several fire detection products have been developed to provide information of fire radiative power location size and temperature of fire pixels but no information regarding fire burning phase is retrieved . The Day Night band aboard Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite is sensitive to visible light from flaming fires in nighttime scenes . In contrast VIIRS 4m moderate resolution band 13 though capable of detecting fires at all phases has no direct sensitivity for discerning fire phase . However the hybrid usage of VIIRS DNB and M bands data is hampered by their different scanning technology and spatial resolution . In this study we present a novel method to rapidly and accurately resample DNB pixel radiances to the footprint of M band pixels accounting for onboard detector aggregation schemes and bowtie effect removals . The visible energy fraction is subsequently introduced as an indicator of fire burning phase . VEF is calculated as the ratio of visible light power to FRP for each fire pixel retrieved from the VIIRS 750m active fire product . A global distribution of VEF values is quantitatively obtained showing smaller VEF values in regions with mostly smoldering wildfires such as peatland fires in Indonesia larger VEF values in regions with flaming wildfires over grasslands and savannas in the sub Sahelian region and the largest VEF values associated with gas flaring in the Middle East . Mean VEF for different land cover types or regions is highly correlated with modified combustion efficiency . These results together with a case study of the 2018 California Camp Fire show that the VEF has the potential to be an indicator of fire combustion phase for each fire pixel appropriate for estimating emission factors at the satellite pixel level .

@highlight Novel approach to resample VIIRS Day Night Band radiances to its M band footprint.
@highlight Visible energy fraction VEF concept is mathematically defined for nighttime fires.
@highlight VEF is more effective than fire radiative power to describe fire phase.
@highlight VEF is a strong indicator of the modified combustion efficiency MCE of fires.
@highlight VEF is computed globally and captures MCE global variation for different biomes.
