 Tree mortality from major disturbances can greatly increase dead wood in forested areas affecting fire intensity and behavior wildlife habitat and carbon dynamics . Accurately quantifying regional standing dead tree pools as conducted by the U.S. Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis program remains a prominent challenge . Little empirical work has been done accounting for structural changes in SDT volume across decay classes due to measurement and sampling challenges associated with SDT . Light detection and ranging represents a remote sensing technology with the potential to improve sampling efficacy and provide volume estimates of SDT via non destructive sampling . Following this the goal of this study was to explore the feasibility of empirically quantifying and assessing structural volume in southern pine SDT by decay class using terrestrial LiDAR . To meet this goal we addressed three objectives 1 construct empirical volume estimates of SDT by decay class using terrestrial LiDAR and a voxel based volume calculation algorithm capable of accounting for occlusion and point cloud quality 2 develop allometric relationships of aboveground SDT component volumes by decay class and assess error in models and predictions and 3 quantify proportion remaining volume of SDT components from terrestrial LiDAR derived volumes relative to predicted intact tree volumes . This study represents the first to develop empirically based terrestrial LiDAR derived allometric volume relationships and proportion remaining volume of SDT by decay class . Results indicate that terrestrial LiDAR derived volumes of SDT produced robust allometric equations by decay class for total above stump and stem plus bark components adjusted R

@highlight Estimated volume of 49 standing dead trees by decay class via terrestrial LiDAR.
@highlight Developed robust standing dead tree specific volume allometry by decay class.
@highlight Height accounted for variability from decay classes for some allometric models.
@highlight Calculated empirical values of proportion remaining volume of standing dead trees.
@highlight Lower scan quality impacted variability of tops and branches volume and allometry.
