 Remote sensing images contain abundant land cover information . Due to the complex nature of land cover however mixed pixels exist widely in remote sensing images . Sub pixel mapping is a technique for predicting the spatial distribution of land cover classes within mixed pixels . As an ill posed inverse problem the uncertainty of prediction can not be eliminated and hinders the production of accurate sub pixel maps . In contrast to conventional methods that use continuous geospatial information to enhance SPM in this paper a SPM method with point constraints into SPM is proposed . The method of fusing point constraints is implemented based on the pixel swapping algorithm and utilizes the auxiliary point information to reduce the uncertainty in the SPM process and increase map accuracy . The point data are incorporated into both the initialization and optimization processes of PSA . Experiments were performed on three images to validate the proposed method . The influences of the performances were also investigated under different numbers of point data different spatial characters of land cover and different zoom factors . The results show that by using the point data the proposed SPM method can separate more small sized targets from aggregated artifacts and the accuracies are increased obviously . The proposed method is also more accurate than the advanced radial basis function interpolation based method . The advantage of using point data is more evident when the point data size and scale factor are large and the spatial autocorrelation of the land cover is small . As the amount of point data increases however the increase in accuracy becomes less noticeable . Furthermore the SPM accuracy can still be increased even if the point data and coarse proportions contain errors .

@highlight Sub pixel mapping is an ill posed problem with inevitable uncertainty.
@highlight The point data are proposed to enhance sub pixel mapping.
@highlight A new sub pixel mapping method with point constraint is proposed.
@highlight More accurate sub pixel maps can be produced by exerting point constraints.
