 Mapping and monitoring of indicators of soil cover vegetation structure and various native and non native species is a critical aspect of rangeland management . With the advancement in satellite imagery as well as cloud storage and computing the capability now exists to conduct planetary scale analysis including mapping of rangeland indicators . Combined with recent investments in the collection of large amounts of in situ data in the western U.S. new approaches using machine learning can enable prediction of surface conditions at times and places when no in situ data are available . However little analysis has yet been done on how the temporal relevancy of training data influences model performance . Here we have leveraged the Google Earth Engine platform and a machine learning algorithm to identify the potential impact of different sampling times on estimation of rangeland indicators from the Bureau of Land Management s Assessment Inventory and Monitoring and Landscape Monitoring Framework programs . Our results indicate that temporally relevant training data improves predictions though the training data need not be from the exact same month and year for a prediction to be temporally relevant . Moreover inclusion of training data from the time when predictions are desired leads to lower prediction error but the addition of training data from other times does not contribute to overall model error . Using all of the available training data can lead to biases toward the mean for times when indicator values are especially high or low . However for mapping purposes limiting training data to just the time when predictions are desired can lead to poor predictions of values outside the spatial range of the training data for that period . We conclude that the best Random Forest prediction maps will use training data from all possible times with the understanding that estimates at the extremes will be biased .

@highlight We used Google Earth Engine GEE to process large volume of remotely sensed data.
@highlight We compared different machine learning algorithms in modeling rangeland indicators.
@highlight We have shown temporal relevance is the key to modeling rangeland indicators.
