 Underground coal mining with high groundwater levels causes many environmental problems one of the main ones being subsidence waterlogging . After the subsidence waterlogging the land faces many problems such as insufficient land development and difficult and costly land restoration . Therefore it is necessary to monitor the spatial range and temporal trajectory pattern of surface subsidence in a timely manner . When information about underground mining is lacking it is difficult by using remote sensing alone to identify and distinguish natural water engineering water and subsidence waterlogging . In this study we used the Google Earth Engine platform to develop a method to detect subsidence waterlogging area and the disturbance year . The method includes pixel based trajectory extraction and object based water type recognition . First LandTrendr is used to extract the change water pixels and its disturbance year . Then the morphological method to further eliminate engineering water patches so as to extract subsidence waterlogging . We selected the Panxie mining area in Huainan China as the study area . Using 33years of Landsat time series data to generate values of the annual water frequency index maps of the year of water accumulation caused by underground coal mining and the year of restoration during 19892016 are drawn with accuracies of 86.5 and 80.7 respectively . The results show that from 1989 to 2016 the accumulated area of subsidence waterlogging was 7715.25ha accounting for 14.5 of the total area of the study area of which 75.8 occurred from 2008 to 2016 . Furthermore the accumulated area of restoration was 207.18ha which occurred after 2007 and accounts for 2.7 of the total area of subsidence waterlogging . Based on the analysis results of the changes of waterlogging types the best time window for restoration of the waterlogging area is 3y after water accumulation . The main innovation of this paper is to make use of the temporal heterogeneity and morphological index of the change water to distinguish engineering water and subsidence waterlogging .

@highlight Map of subsidence waterlogging caused by mining coal using Landsat time series.
@highlight The annual water frequency index is capable to capture the water variability.
@highlight A spatial temporal algorithm identifies the timing of subsidence waterlogging
@highlight The algorithm identifies the timing of backfill after subsidence waterlogging.
@highlight The algorithm is applicable to other mining areas too.
