 Accurate estimation of fractional vegetation cover crop residue cover and bare soil in agricultural and vegetation soil ecosystems is critically important . The traditional triangular space method uses a CRC spectral index and vegetation SI to create a two dimensional scatter map in which the three vertices represent pure vegetation crop residue and bare soil . With this method the CRC FVC and BS of each pixel are calculated based on their spatial locations in the triangular space . In practice soil moisture and crop residue moisture affects the values of CRC spectral indices for pure crop residue and soil thereby reducing the accuracy of broadband remote sensing estimates of CRC FVC and BS . In the current work we propose a new method for estimating fractional cover that uses a broadband spectral angle index to estimate CRC . The proposed BAI is the included angle between the line from the reflectance at band a to the reflectance at band b and the line from the reflectance at band b to the reflectance at band c where bands a and b represent the VIS or NIR bands respectively and band c represents the SWIR1 or SWIR2 of the broadband remote sensing band . The proposed BAI method can mitigate the effects of soil and crop residue moisture content on spectral reflectance . This study evaluates proposed BAIs to estimate CRC and BAI NDVI triangular space method to estimate CRC FVC and BS in cropland where water content varies greatly . Several different BAIs were validated using both laboratory based measurements and field based experiments using Sentinel 2 multispectral instrument imaging . We used two laboratory based treatments to analyze the response of BAIs to CRC SM CRM FVC and vegetation water content . Next we evaluated the performance of different BAIs in determining CRC based on the mixed spectral reflectance of crop residue and soil as well as the performance of the BAI NDVI triangular space method and linear spectral unmixing analysis to estimate CRC FVC and BS from mixed spectral reflectance measurements . Our results indicate that the proposed methods reduce the influence of moisture on broadband CRC SIs provide accurate estimates of cropland CRC and fractional estimates of CRC FVC and BS and may be applied in croplands where soil and crop residue moisture content varies greatly .

@highlight Performance of the broadband crop residues indices declines with the increasing moisture.
@highlight New broadband crop residue angle index BAI is resistant to soil and crop residue moisture effect.
@highlight Cropland FVC CRC and BS estimation accuracy improved using BAI.
