 Accurate and detailed soil moisture information is essential for among other things irrigation drought and flood prediction water resources management and field scale decision making . Recent satellite missions measuring soil moisture from space continue to improve the availability of soil moisture information . However the utility of these satellite products is limited by the large footprint of the microwave sensors . This study presents a merging framework that combines a hyper resolution land surface model a radiative transfer model and a Bayesian scheme to merge and downscale coarse resolution remotely sensed hydrological variables to a 30 m spatial resolution . The framework is based on HydroBlocks an LSM that solves the field scale spatial heterogeneity of land surface processes through interacting hydrologic response units . The framework was demonstrated for soil moisture by coupling HydroBlocks with the Tau Omega RTM used in the Soil Moisture Active Passive mission . The brightness temperature from the HydroBlocks RTM and SMAP L3 were merged to obtain updated 30 m soil moisture . We validated the downscaled soil moisture estimates at four experimental watersheds with dense in situ soil moisture networks in the United States and obtained overall high correlations and good mean KGE score . The downscaled product captures the spatial and temporal soil moisture dynamics better than SMAP L3 and L4 product alone at both field and watershed scales . Our results highlight the value of hyper resolution modeling to bridge the gap between coarse scale satellite retrievals and field scale hydrological applications .

@highlight Hyper resolution land surface model improves field scale soil moisture estimates
@highlight Hyper resolution heterogeneity leverages the soil moisture spatial variability
@highlight HRUs allow for computationally efficient merging of remote sensing observations
@highlight The merging skill is sensitive to biases in the model and satellite estimates
