 Crop lodging assessment is essential for evaluating yield damage and informing crop management decisions for sustainable agricultural production . While a few studies have demonstrated the potential of optical and SAR data for crop lodging assessment large scale crop lodging assessment has been hampered by the unavailability of dense satellite time series data . The unprecedented availability of free Sentinel 1 and Sentinel 2 data may provide a basis for operational detection and monitoring of crop lodging . In this context this study aims to understand the effect of lodging on backscatter coherence and spectral reflectance derived from Sentinel 1 and Sentinel 2 data and to detect lodging incidence in wheat using time series analysis . Crop biophysical parameters were measured in the field for both healthy and lodged plots from March to June 2018 in a study site in Ferrara Italy and the corresponding Sentinel images were downloaded and processed . The lodged plots were further categorised into different lodging severity classes . Temporal profiles of backscatter coherence reflectance and continuum removed spectra were studied for healthy and lodging severity classes throughout the stem elongation to ripening growth stages . The Kruskal Wallis and posthoc Tukey tests were used to test for significant differences between different classes . Our results for Sentinel 2 showed that red edge and NIR bands could best distinguish healthy from lodged wheat . For Sentinel 1 the analysis revealed the potential of VH backscatter and the complementarity of VV and VH VV backscatter in distinguishing a maximum number of classes . Our findings demonstrate the potential of Sentinel data for near real time detection of the incidence and severity of lodging in wheat . To the best of our knowledge there is no study that has contributed to this application .

@highlight Sentinel 1 and Sentinel 2 time series data are analysed for healthy and lodged wheat.
@highlight VH backscatter red edge and NIR reflectance were highly sensitive to wheat lodging.
@highlight VV and VH VV backscatter could be used complementarily for lodging detection.
