 Sun induced chlorophyll fluorescence has been used to track vegetation photosynthetic activity for improving estimation of gross primary productivity and detecting plant stress . There are both physical and physiological controls of SIF measured at the surface and retrieved from remote sensing including satellite observations . In order to accurately use SIF for monitoring of plant physiology the effects of physically based radiation processes related to leaf and canopy structure notably photosynthetically active radiation absorption and SIF scattering and re absorption must be characterized . In this study we investigate both PAR absorption and SIF scattering processes and find that although it is difficult to quantify their effects individually by using just reflectance the combined effects of the two processes can be well approximated by a reflectance index . This index referred to as FCVI is defined as the difference between near infrared and broad band visible reflectance acquired under identical sun canopy observer geometry of the SIF measurements . The development of the index was based on the physical connection between reflectance and far red SIF which was revealed by using the spectral invariant theory . The utility of FCVI to correct far red SIF for PAR absorption and scattering effects thus improving the link to photosynthesis was tested with data from a field experiment for a growing season and a numerical experiment which included a number of scenarios generated by a radiative transfer model . For both the observations and simulations the FCVI provided a promising estimate of the impact of the physically based radiation processes on far red SIF of moderately dense canopies . Normalizing the TOC far red SIF by both the incident PAR and the FCVI provided a good estimate of the far red fluorescence emission efficiency of the canopies examined . This approach enhances our ability to generalize retrievals for vegetation processes as they change through natural growth phases and seasons . Taken together far red SIF and FCVI may enable the assessment of the light partitioning of vegetation canopies an essential step to facilitate the use of far red SIF for tracking physiological processes .

@highlight We propose an index FCVI for the effects of physical processes on far red SIF.
@highlight FCVI is the difference between near infrared and broadband visible reflectance.
@highlight Normalizing SIF by FCVI and PAR is an estimate of fluorescence emission efficiency.
@highlight FCVI was tested with a field measurement and a numerical experiment.
