 The Sudanian Savanna of West Africa is characterized by tropical savannas and woodlands . Accurate estimation of AGB and carbon stocks in this biome is important for addressing sustainable development goals as the information can aid natural resource management at varied spatial scales . Previous AGB mapping efforts focused on humid forests with little attention on savannas . This study explored the use of annual monthly time series of Senitinel 1 and Sentinel 2 data to map AGB in the SS . Backscatter spectral reflectance and derivatives were combined with field inventory data in a Random Forest regression to map AGB . Eight experiments were conducted with different data configurations to determine the potential of S 1 and S 2 for AGB mapping optimal image acquisition period for AGB mapping and contribution of image derivatives to improving the accuracy of AGB mapping . The predicted map was validated with 40 of the inventory data . Uncertainty in the AGB was assessed using mean absolute error root mean squared error coefficient of determination and symmetrical mean absolute percentage error . Results show that about 90 of the study area have low AGB stocks of less than 90Mg ha . Compared to S 1 S 2 achieved better prediction accuracy although combination of the two according to seasonality produced the best results . Images acquired in the dry season were found to be more useful for predicting AGB than those of rainy season . Also stress related vegetation indices and a red edge dependent normalized difference vegetation index not tested in previous AGB studies using Sentinels were found to be significant contributors to the superior performance of S 2 . Since biomass is a finite resource our results can provide valuable information on the sustainable use of biomass and energy security including studies on carbon cycling and ecosystem functions in the region . The demonstrated possibility of using open access earth observation data to map and monitor AGB in data scarce regions is useful and beneficial to attaining SDG indicators 15.2.1 and 15.3.1 . Further work on developing species specific wood densities and allometric equations is required to improve AGB and carbon stock estimation in the SS .

@highlight Sentinel 2 found to be a better predictor of AGB than Sentinel 1.
@highlight Combination of Sentinel 1 and 2 produce better results than either of them.
@highlight Indices and biophysical parameters useful than spectral bands in AGB mapping.
@highlight Dry season images achieve better results in AGB mapping than rainy season images.
@highlight Open access satellite data can assist developing countries to attain SDG targets.
