 This paper applies the Fully Focussed SAR algorithm to CryoSat 2 full bit rate data to measure water levels of lakes and canals in the Netherlands and validates these measurements by comparing them to heights measured by gauges . Over Lake IJssel a medium sized lake the FF SAR height is biased about 6cm below the gauge height and a similar bias is found at six sites where CryoSat 2 crosses rivers and canals . The precision of the FF SAR measurements depends on the extent of multi looking applied . Over Lake IJssel the precision varies from 4 to 11cm decreasing as multi looking increases . The precision of FF SAR with 100m of multi looking is equivalent to that of the standard delay Doppler processing which has an along track resolution of about 300m . The width and orientation of rivers and canals limits the maximum available multi looking . After removing the 6cm bias FF SAR heights of rivers and canals have an accuracy between 2cm and several decimeters primarily depending on the presence of other water bodies lying within the cross track measurement footprint as these contaminate the waveform . We demonstrate that FF SAR processing is able to resolve and measure small ditches only a few meters in width . The visibility of these signals depends on the angle at which CryoSat 2 crosses the ditch and on whether or not the ditch remains straight within CryoSat 2s field of view . In the best case scenario straight ditches at nearly 90 to the CryoSat 2 ground track the ditch signal has high enough signal to noise to allow sub decimeter accuracy of FF SAR height measurement .

@highlight First validation of inland water level estimation using CryoSat 2 fully focussed SAR altimetry data
@highlight Complete description of the implementation of the backprojection algorithm for CryoSat 2
@highlight Improved precision of FF SAR with respect to delay Doppler demonstrated over a lake
@highlight Unprecedented accuracy over rivers and canals smaller than the delay Doppler footprint
@highlight Water level estimation of smallest target ever observed with a satellite radar altimeter
