 Insights into the dynamics of coastlines and tidal flats at fine spatial and temporal resolutions are essential for sustainable development . Previous studies were generally conducted at relatively coarse temporal intervals which hardly captured detailed coastal dynamics especially in rapidly developing islands . In this study we developed a new method to map the monthly changes in coastlines and tidal flats in the Zhoushan Archipelago during 19852017 using the full time series of Landsat images based on the Google Earth Engine platform . First we built the full time series of the Modified Normalized Difference Water Index . Second we derived temporal segments of MNDWI using a binary segmentation algorithm . Third we classified the corresponding coastal cover types for each temporal segment based on the features of MNDWI and regional tidal heights . Finally we identified the change information including conversion types and turning years and months . Results indicate that the proposed method can well identify turning years with an overall accuracy of 90 and map coastal cover types with overall accuracies of 8994 in 1985 and 8792 in 2017 . Significant coastline expansions and declines in tidal flats were found in the study area . The areas of water and tidal flats decreased by 6 and 10 during 19852017 respectively while the land area increased by 18 . The land reclamation was accelerated in the recent decade and mainly occurred on the medium large islands their surrounding small islands and the islands close to the mainland . The proposed framework based on the GEE platform is transferable to investigate coastal dynamics in other areas . The derived information of changes in coastlines and tidal flats is of great use for sustainable management and ecological studies in coastal areas .

@highlight We mapped monthly changes in coastlines and tidal flats at pixel level using all Landsat.
@highlight The derived coastal dynamics is reliable in detecting paces of land reclamation.
@highlight This study reveals detailed responses of coastlines and tidal flats to human activities.
@highlight The proposed framework based on the GEE is transferable to other coastal areas.
