 Spatio temporal image fusion methods have become a popular means to produce remotely sensed data sets that have both fine spatial and temporal resolution . Accurate prediction of reflectance change is difficult especially when the change is caused by both phenological change and land cover class changes . Although several spatio temporal fusion methods such as the Flexible Spatiotemporal DAta Fusion directly derive land cover phenological change information at different dates the direct derivation of land cover class change information is challenging . In this paper an enhanced FSDAF that incorporates sub pixel class fraction change information is proposed . By directly deriving the sub pixel land cover class fraction change information the proposed method allows accurate prediction even for heterogeneous regions that undergo a land cover class change . In particular SFSDAF directly derives fine spatial resolution endmember change and class fraction change at the date of the observed image pair and the date of prediction which can help identify image reflectance change resulting from different sources . SFSDAF predicts a fine resolution image at the time of acquisition of coarse resolution images using only one prior coarse and fine resolution image pair and accommodates variations in reflectance due to both natural fluctuations in class spectral response and land cover class change . The method is illustrated using degraded and real images and compared against three established spatio temporal methods . The results show that the SFSDAF produced the least blurred images and the most accurate predictions of fine resolution reflectance values especially for regions of heterogeneous landscape and regions that undergo some land cover class change . Consequently the SFSDAF has considerable potential in monitoring Earth surface dynamics .

@highlight SFSDAF is proposed to fuse coarse and fine spatial resolution images.
@highlight SFSDAF derives endmember change to represent phenological change like FSDAF.
@highlight SFSDAF derives sub pixel class fraction changes to accommodate land cover change.
@highlight SFSDAF accommodates the presence of mixed pixels at the fine resolution scale.
@highlight The combined effect from endmember change and class fraction change is analyzed.
