 Drought indices based on thermal remote sensing have been developed and have merit for effective early warning of agricultural droughts but approaches so far are relatively complex or sensitive to land surface temperature estimation uncertainties . Here we propose the temperature rise index a drought index that is comparatively robust and easy to calculate as the anomaly of the intrinsic morning rise of LST . The underlying principle is that the rate of LST rise between 1.5 and 3.5h after the sunrise is approximately linear and occurs more rapidly under dry conditions than under wet conditions over vegetated surfaces as a consequence of stomatal control . TRI during the growing seasons of 20102014 was calculated over the Australian wheatbelt from LST retrievals from the geostationary Multifunction Transport Satellite 2 instrument . The calculated TRI was compared with indices based on precipitation integrated over 1 3 and 6 month time scales on Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity soil moisture derived from passive microwave remote sensing and on vegetation condition derived from optical remote sensing . The various indices were also compared to annual wheat yield over large areas . The correlation coefficient between TRI and precipitation anomaly that serves as an operational drought index in Australia was above 0.6 in general with 3 month integrative time scale for precipitation . TRI produced spatiotemporal dryness patterns that were very similar to those in soil moisture but with more detail due to its finer resolution . A time lag of 1 month was found between TRI and observed vegetation condition supporting the use of TRI in early warning . Among the compared drought indices TRI explained the largest fraction of wheat yield variations . TRI correlations with wheat yields peaked higher and earlier by almost one month in comparison to other indices . We conclude that the thermal drought index proposed here shows considerable potential for use in drought early warning as an effective complement .

@highlight Land surface temperature morning rise at 1.53.5h after sunrise is quasi linear.
@highlight Vegetation canopy under water stress has a faster temperature morning rise.
@highlight Temperature rise index provides earlier drought monitoring than greenness indices.
@highlight Temperature rise index peaked higher and earlier by 1 month in correlation to yields.
