 Geostationary Ocean Color Imager sensor onboard the COMS launched in 2010 was primarily designed to provide high frequency observations in and around the Korean Peninsula to ensure the thorough monitoring of ocean properties . Owing to its pixel resolution of 500m and large set of spectral solar channels GOCI can also be considered for applications related to the characterization of vegetation and the retrieval of aerosol properties over land . However to apply it for the full characterization of land it is mandatory to properly remove clouds from the images . Such a procedure has limitations when there is a lack of thermal bands as is the case with GOCI . However GOCI data are impacted by shadows and radiation scattering effects during the daily course of the sun . Although this yields strong directional effects the bidirectional reflectance distribution function can be determined to a high level of accuracy . This information is used as a reference to detect clouds over land because surface BRDF varies slowly with time compared to that of clouds . The proposed algorithm relies on knowledge of the BRDF field derived from the application of a semi empirical model that simulates the minimum difference between top and bottom of atmosphere reflectance values as the baseline of clear atmosphere . This step also serves to estimate background surface reflectance underneath clouds . Accuracy assessment of the new GOCI cloud mask product is appraised through a comparison with high resolution vertical profiles of lidar data from the polar orbiting Cloud Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation . The results for the Probability Of Detection of all cloud types was found to be 0.831 for GOCI this is comparable to that of MODIS . For the case of only thin cirrus GOCI POD value was assessed to be 0.849 similar to that of MODIS underlining the improved efficiency of determining thin cloud pixels .

@highlight We suggest thin cloud detection method for GOCI regarding vegetation or aerosols over land surface.
@highlight The original GOCI pre processing was improved by applying a semi empirical BRDF model.
@highlight BRDF was used to determine the minimum reflectance difference between TOA and land.
@highlight A baseline of clear atmosphere and background surface reflectance were defined.
@highlight All cloud and thin cloud POD values of GOCI are found to be above MODIS.
