 Land surface phenology has been widely used as the footprint of urbanization and global climate change . Shifts of LSP have cascading effects on food production carbon sequestration water consumption biodiversity and public health . Previous studies mainly focused on investigating the effects of urbanization on the spatial patterns of LSP by comparing phenological metrics e.g . start of season and end of season between urban center and the surrounding rural regions . However it remains unclear how urbanization induced land cover conversions and climate change jointly influence the temporal variations of SOS and EOS within the urban ecosystem . To fill this knowledge gap we utilized daily two band enhanced vegetation index daily meteorological record and annual land cover dataset to investigate the respective impacts of urbanization and climate change on temporal shifts of LSP between the post and the pre urbanization periods over 196 large cities in the northern mid latitudes . We found 51 of the cities experienced an advanced SOS with an average of 6.395.82 days after urbanization has occurred while the remaining 49 of the cities had a delayed SOS with an average of 7.565.63 days . We also found a later EOS at 53 of the cities and an earlier EOS at 47 of the cities with an average of 8.437.59 and 5.574.99 days between the post and pre urbanization periods respectively . Multiple linear regression analysis indicates that climate variables play dominant roles in regulating the temporal shifts of LSP . Furthermore the earlier SOS and later EOS were significantly correlated with the amplitude of urbanization in cities after controlling for effects of climate factors . These patterns were generally consistent across eight climate zones . Our findings provide critical information in modeling natural and anthropogenic effects on urban ecosystem with important benefits for urban sustainability and biodiversity conservation .

@highlight Post and pre urbanization periods were identified for 196 large cities.
@highlight Half of the cities experienced earlier SOS and delayed EOS after urbanization.
@highlight Climate change played a dominant role in regulating temporal shifts of phenology.
@highlight Urbanization can either amplified or off set climate effects on phenology.
@highlight Influences of urbanization and climate change vary by climate background.
