 Mapping and assessment of water related ecosystems is a challenging task that requires advanced processing techniques with clear rules and standards in terminology and definition of class features . These ecosystems are hydrologically and ecologically connected at catchment level and co exist within a human context . The SWOS national service case for mapping and assessing the 10 Greek Ramsar wetland sites and their catchment areas is built on the requirements of the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands and of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 20112020 . It contributes directly to Sustainable Development Goal Global Indicator 6.6.1 Sub Indicator 1 spatial extent of water related ecosystems . An Object Based Image Analysis approach was adopted using Sentinel 2 satellite images for the year 2017 to discriminate 31 classes over an area of 2 015 591ha . The classification model was further adjusted to Landsat 5 TM imagery of previous years in order to extract possible changes in the spatial extent of water related ecosystems . The Mapping and Assessment of Ecosystems and their Services ecosystem typology as this was enhanced within SWOS was applied . Results demonstrate the effectiveness of the employed classification model techniques and rules in obtaining highly accurate mapping results on the spatial extent of water related ecosystems . Also they highlight the contribution of Earth Observation and geospatial analysis in assessments of area based changes and their causes as well as in identification of conservation and management priorities . In addition to address the need to strengthen national capacities the established SWOS service lines have been used as a contribution to the user community .

@highlight Hierarchical OBIA effectiveness over 20.150Km
@highlight  in mapping 24 wetland classes.
@highlight SWOS modified MAES typology applicability in wetland ecosystems.
@highlight Applicability in reporting the SDG 6.6.1 and updating the Ramsar Information Sheets.
@highlight Changes estimation in spatial extent of Greek Ramsar sites along with their causes.
@highlight All mapping products are accessible via SWOS portal.
