 The Tonle Sap Lake is the largest natural freshwater lake in Southeast Asia and is called the heart of the lower Mekong due to its high aquatic biodiversity and is considered as one of the most productive freshwater ecosystems of the world . Its floodplain eco system which is strongly tied to seasonal flood pulse is extremely important for food security trade and economy of Cambodia supporting the livelihoods of about 1.7million people . On the other hand flood can also be extremely devastating in the region along the TSL . In recent years studies have pointed out that rapid growing number of water infrastructures as well as future climate changes may alter the hydrological cycle of the Mekong River Basin and are expected to influence the flood pulse of the TSL and surrounding TSL floodplain . Therefore it is timely to understand historical inundation extent and predict its likely future state . In this study we proposed a Rotated Empirical Orthogonal Function analysis based daily inundation extent estimation framework integrating multi temporal stack of Sentinel 1A Synthetic Aperture Radar imagery and Jason series satellite altimetry data . The framework can generate daily cloud free and gap free inundation extents for any given time depending on the altimetry data provided . A long term El Nio and Southern Oscillation index based daily TSL level forecasting method with months of lead time was also proposed to fulfill the framework s forecasting capacity . In this study the framework was adopted in the TSL floodplain area for hindcast and forecast of daily inundation extents . Estimated inundation extents were cross compared with MODIS derived and Sentinel 1 derived inundation maps resulting in up to higher than 90 of Critical Success Index . The proposed framework has innovative capacity of estimation of future daily areal inundation extents and is a fully remote sensing based framework which can empower local authorities tasked with water resource management decisions without relying on upstream countries . The framework has potential to be implemented in other major river basins or wetlands . The implementation on SAR imagery from other satellites with different bands of electromagnetic wave is also possible but requires more investigation .

@highlight A daily areal inundation estimating framework for Tonle Sap floodplain was proposed.
@highlight The framework can forecast areal inundation and is fully remote sensing based.
@highlight Synthesis of daily SAR intensity images with REOF analysis was proposed.
@highlight An ENSO based long term Tonle Sap Lake level forecasting system was proposed.
@highlight Estimated inundation maps well agree with MODIS and Sentinel 1 derived ones.
