 A prompt and overall understanding of building damages following a disaster is critical as they are closely related to casualties . As an important active remote sensing technology synthetic aperture radar can be a valuable tool for assessing building damages in disasters owing to its large coverage quick response non contact and independence of weather and light capabilities . Various approaches have been proposed for SAR based building damage assessment with the development of radar technology and interpretation techniques . While providing numerous choices these multifarious approaches also make it burdensome to ponder the applicable approach in a specific case and to reflect on potential fields for further research . Accordingly this paper hierarchically classified and summarized these approaches to provide a structured understanding of the research status in this field for assisting in approach decisions and promising field considerations . First depending on the pre event data availability the numerous approaches were classified into change detections employing both pre and post event data and assessments applying only post event data . Then determined by the data resolution level and acquisition mode the plentiful change detection approaches were further distinguished into block unit approaches analyzing intensity coherence or polarimetry features and building unit approaches that simply generalize the block unit approaches or that concretely explore the detailed individual building features . The post event data based assessments with relatively fewer approaches were further introduced as methods exploring polarimetry or and texture features . In each classification category the principle was first introduced to explain the basic concept and essence of the approaches . An approach review was then provided by organizing relevant studies in a logical or structured way to facilitate a clear understanding of the overall research status . Favorable parameters in each category were also summarized for easy reference and application in the future .

@highlight Various SAR based building damage assessment methods were hierarchically classified.
@highlight Principles of each classified category were introduced to explain the method essence.
@highlight Studies in each category were logically organized to provide a clear understanding.
@highlight Favorable parameters in each category were summarized to facilitate future reference.
@highlight Several future efforts for SAR based building damage assessment were noted.
