 Wetland is a very fragile ecosystem that provides important services to a large variety of flora and fauna species as well as for humans . As wetland depends on water availability protecting this important ecosystem requires careful hydrological monitoring . The Sentinel 1 mission featuring a wide swath coverage high temporal observations and open data policy provides unprecedented opportunity for high spatio temporal resolution water level change mapping over regional wide wetland areas . In this study we assess Sentinel 1 InSAR observations for routine water level change measurements over the entire south Florida Everglades wetlands . The study utilizes 91 Sentinel 1 images acquired over a three year period and generates routine 12 days Interferograms and correspondingly 30m spatial resolution water level change maps over the entire Everglades . The high spatial resolution interferograms detect hydrological signals induced by both natural and human induced flow including tides gate operations and canal overflow all these can not be detected by terrestrial measurements . The large number of both InSAR and ground based gauge observations allow us to quantify the overall accuracy of the Sentinel 1 InSAR measurements which is 3.9cm for the entire wetland area but better for smaller hydrological units within the Everglades . Our study reveals that the tropospheric delay for individual interferograms can be very large as much as 30cm . When applying tropospheric corrections to all three years of Sentinel 1 InSAR observations the overall accuracy level improved by 13 to 3.4cm . Although our study is focused on the Everglades its implications in term of the suitability of Sentinel 1 observations for space based hydrological monitoring of wetlands and the derived accuracy level are applicable to other wetlands with similar vegetation types located all over the world .

@highlight Sentinel 1 InSAR enables mapping of water level change over the entire Everglades.
@highlight Interferograms detected both natural and human induced hydrological signals.
@highlight Accuracy of water level observations with no tropospheric correction is 3.9cm.
@highlight Accuracy with tropospheric correction increases by 13 to 3.4cm.
