 Satellite derived phenology metrics are valuable tools for understanding broad scale patterns and changes in vegetated landscapes over time . However the extraction and interpretation of phenology in ecosystems with subtle growth dynamics can be challenging . US National Park Service monitoring of evergreen pinyon juniper ecosystems in the western US revealed an unexpected winter peaking phenological pattern in normalized difference vegetation index time series derived from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer imagery . In this paper we assess the validity of the winter peaks through ground based observation of phenology and examination of solar and satellite geometry effects . To test the premise of a true vegetation response we analyzed NDVI values extracted from a time series of ground based digital camera images collected September 2017 to December 2018 in a pinyon juniper woodland in Arizona US . Results show pinyon and juniper growth peaked in the warm season as did the other species in the phenocam field of view . NDVI time series from four other sensors confirmed that winter peaks in this ecosystem are not limited to MODIS products . Examination of NDVI time series derived from daily 250 m MODIS data in the broader pinyon juniper ecosystem revealed that solar to sensor angle sensor zenith angle and forward back scatter reflectance explained 80 of intra annual variability . Solar to sensor angle exerted the greatest control and the direction of its correlation was the opposite of that which would be expected if it were driven by vegetation greenness . Solar to sensor angle is controlled seasonally by solar zenith angle and daily by variations in satellite overpass geometry . We mapped winter peaks across the western US in Google Earth Engine using 500 m MODIS MCD43A4 data which correct for reflectance differences caused by view angle . In areas where winter vegetation peaks are ecologically improbable consistent winter peaks are widespread in both pinyon juniper and non pinyon juniper conifer ecosystems winter peaks are common across areas of shrubland . We attribute winter peaks to the positive correlation of NDVI with solar to sensor angle and solar zenith angle in combination with sparse vertically oriented evergreen vegetation canopies . Increasing shadow visibility has been shown to increase overall NDVI and the prevalence of the winter peaking in evergreen western sparse canopy ecosystems is consistent with this hypothesis . The extent of winter peaking patterns may have been previously overlooked due to temporal compositing curve fitting and incomplete snow screening .

@highlight Satellite data time series show winter peaking NDVI in pinyon juniper ecosystems.
@highlight Phenocam data confirm warm season peaks in a pinyon juniper system in Arizona USA.
@highlight Solar sensor geometry explains 80 of variability in pinyon juniper satellite NDVI.
@highlight Shadowing is the likely cause of false winter increases in NDVI.
@highlight NDVI is an inappropriate phenological tool across widespread western ecosystems.
