 Landfast sea ice is an important feature prevalent around the Antarctic coast which is affected by climate change and energy exchanges with the atmosphere and ocean . This study proposed a method for detection of the West Antarctic fast ice using the Advanced Land Observing Satellite Phased Array L band SAR images . The algorithm has combined image segmentation image correlation analysis and machine learning techniques extremely randomized trees and logistic regression . We used SAR images with a baseline of 5days that are not in the same orbit but overlap each other as overlaps between swaths in adjacent orbits are often available in the polar regions . The underlying assumption for the proposed fast ice detection algorithm is that fast ice regions in SAR images with a time interval of 5days are highly correlated . The object based approach proposed in this study was well suited to high resolution SAR images in deriving spatially homogeneous fast ice regions . The image segmentation results using the optimized parameters showed a distinct difference in the backscatter temporal evolution between fast ice and pack ice regions . Correlation and STD of backscattering coefficients were found to be the most significant variables for the object based fast ice detection from two temporally separated images . In overall the quantitative and qualitative evaluation demonstrated that the algorithm was an effective approach to detect fast ice with high accuracies . The models well detected various fast ice regions in the West Antarctica but misclassified some objects . The misclassifications occurred toward the edge of fast ice regions with relatively rapid changes in backscattering between both data acquisitions . On the other hand few fast ice objects were misclassified as uniform backscattering over time occurred by chance on very small objects far from the coast . Very old multi year fast ice regions with high backscattered signals were also a source for some misclassifications . This may be due to the sensitivity of L band to snow structure to some extent and a thinner ice over the region with either ice growth or closing between both images . Heavy snow load on the ice could be another error source for some misclassification as well . The approach allowed for the reliable detection of fast ice regions by using L band SAR images with a small local incidence angle difference .

@highlight A novel landfast sea ice detection approach was proposed over West Antarctica.
@highlight Landfast sea ice was detected using L band SAR image pairs with a 5 day interval.
@highlight The approach combines image segmentation object correlation and machine learning.
@highlight The proposed approach was evaluated using time series ALOS PALSAR data.
