 The first national product of Surface Water Dynamics in France is generated on a monthly temporal scale and 10 m spatial scale using an automatic rule based superpixel approach . The current surface water dynamic products from high resolution multispectral satellite imagery are typically analyzed to determine the annual trend and related seasonal variability . Annual and seasonal time series analyses may fail to detect the intra annual variations of water bodies . Sentinel 2 allows us to investigate water resources based on both spatial and temporal high resolution analyses . We propose a new automatic RBSP approach on the Google Earth Engine platform . The RBSP method employs combined spectral indices and superpixel techniques to delineate the surface water extent this approach avoids the need for training data and benefits large scale dynamic and automatic monitoring . We used the proposed RBSP method to process Sentinel 2 monthly composite images covering a two year period and generate the monthly surface water extent at the national scale i.e . over France . Annual occurrence maps were further obtained based on the pixel frequency in monthly water maps . The monthly dynamics provided in SWDF products are evaluated by HR satellite derived water masks at the national scale and at local scales . The monthly trends between SWDF and GSW were similar with a coefficient of 0.94 . The confusion matrix based metrics based on the sample points were 0.885 0.963 0.932 and 0.865 . The annual surface water extents are validated by two HR satellite image based water maps and an official database at the national scale and small water bodies at the local scale at Loir et Cher . The results show that the SWDF results are closely correlated to the previous annual water extents with a coefficient 0.950 . The SWDF results are further validated for large rivers and lakes with extraction rates of 0.929 and 0.802 respectively . Also SWDF exhibits superiority to GSW in small water body extraction with an extraction rate improved by approximately 20 . Thus the SWDF method can be used to study interannual seasonal and monthly variations in surface water systems . The monthly dynamic maps of SWDF improved the degree of land surface coverage by 25 of France on average compared with GSW which is the only product that provides monthly dynamics . Further harmonization of Sentinel 2 and Landsat 8 and the introduction of enhanced cloud detection algorithm can fill some gaps of no data regions .

@highlight Propose a rule based superpixel approach to automatically extract surface water extent
@highlight Detect water bodies in various scenes e.g. urban agricultural and mountainous areas
@highlight Generate a product of surface water dynamics in metropolitan France
@highlight Release first national water dynamics at monthly temporal and 10 m spatial scales
