 Cropland abandonment is a widespread land use change but it is difficult to monitor with remote sensing because it is often spatially dispersed easily confused with spectrally similar land use classes such as grasslands and fallow fields and because post agricultural succession can take different forms in different biomes . Due to these difficulties prior assessments of cropland abandonment have largely been limited in resolution extent or both . However cropland abandonment has wide reaching consequences for the environment food production and rural livelihoods which is why new approaches to monitor long term cropland abandonment in different biomes accurately are needed . Our goals were to 1 develop a new approach to map the extent and the timing of abandoned cropland using the entire Landsat time series and 2 test this approach in 14 study regions across the globe that capture a wide range of environmental conditions as well as the three major causes of abandonment i.e . social economic and environmental factors . Our approach was based on annual maps of active cropland and non cropland areas using Landsat summary metrics for each year from 1987 to 2017 . We streamlined per pixel classifications by generating multi year training data that can be used for annual classification . Based on the annual classifications we analyzed land use trajectories of each pixel in order to distinguish abandoned cropland stable cropland non cropland and fallow fields . In most study regions our new approach separated abandoned cropland accurately from stable cropland and other classes . The classification accuracy for abandonment was highest in regions with industrialized agriculture and drylands where fields were large or spectrally distinct from non cropland . Abandonment of subsistence agriculture with small field sizes or highly variable climate was not accurately mapped . Cropland abandonment occurred in all study regions but was especially prominent in developing countries and formerly socialist states . In summary we present here an approach for monitoring cropland abandonment with Landsat imagery which can be applied across diverse biomes and may thereby improve the understanding of the drivers and consequences of this important land use change process .

@highlight We propose an approach to map cropland abandonment using all available Landsat images.
@highlight A novel method is developed to generate training dataset semi automatically.
@highlight Annual cropland maps are generated using Landsat spectral temporal metrics.
@highlight Our approach is successful in most of 14 study regions across the globe.
@highlight Strong spatial and temporal variations exist in cropland abandonment.
