 Winter cover crops such as barley rye and wheat help to improve soil structure by increasing porosity aggregate stability and organic matter while reducing the loss of agricultural nutrients and sediments into waterways . The environmental performance of cover crops is affected by choice of species planting date planting method nutrient inputs temperature and precipitation . The Maryland Department of Agriculture oversees an agricultural cost share program that provides farmers with funding to cover costs associated with planting winter cover crops and the U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service have partnered with the MDA to develop satellite remote sensing techniques for measuring cover crop performance . The MDA has developed the capacity to digitize field boundaries for all fields enrolled in their cover crop programs to support a remote sensing performance analysis at a statewide scal e and has requested assistance with the associated imagery processing from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Using the Google Earth Engine cloud computing platform scripts were developed to process Landsat 5 7 8 and Harmonized Sentinel 2 imagery to measure winter cover crop performance . We calibrated cover crop performance models using linear regression between satellite vegetation indices and USGS USDA ARS field sampling data collected on Maryland farms between 2006 and 2012 . Satellite derived Normalized Difference Vegetation Index values showed significant correlation with the natural logarithm of cover crop biomass the USDA Lower Chesapeake Bay Long Term Agricultural Research Project the Maryland Department of Agriculture and the NASA DEVELOP National Program .

@highlight Google Earth Engine script facilitates winter cover crop remote sensing analysis.
@highlight Cost share program data combined with harmonized Landsat and Sentinel imagery.
@highlight Seasonal analysis of cover crop performance biomass vegetative cover .
@highlight Results showed different performance for various agronomic management strategies
@highlight Informs adaptive management of cover crop cost share incentive programs.
