 This paper proposed an improved method for separating soil and vegetation component temperatures from one pixel land surface temperature using multi pixel and multi temporal data . The two main features of the method are the use of a diurnal temperature cycle model to describe component temperatures and the application of a spatial weighting matrix to consider the spatial correlation of component temperatures . The proposed method was evaluated using an extensive simulated dataset with five component temperature types three LST errors and 69 fractional vegetation cover types and field measurements with a high temporal frequency . Due to the time extendibility of DTC model the possibility for retrieving component temperatures at any time was analyzed . Correspondingly the schemes for selecting the best observations for four representative periods i.e . 10 0012 00 09 0018 00 18 0003 00 and 09 0003 00 were determined . The validations showed satisfactory accuracies and it was found that the errors were significantly influenced by the original LST retrieval error . In addition the difference between the ideal temperature pattern from the DTC model and the actual temperature variation also affected the accuracy of the temporally extended component temperatures . Furthermore sensitivity analyses indicated that the separation accuracy was independent of the uncertainty of the component emissivity but was influenced by FVC . Specifically the retrieval accuracy was sensitive to the size and variation of FVC and the latter had a more significant influence but the result was less sensitive to the retrieval error and angular effect of FVC . Considering its accuracy operability and robustness the proposed method is effective for separating soil and vegetation component temperatures .

@highlight An improved method for separating soil and vegetation component temperatures was proposed.
@highlight A diurnal temperature cycle model was used to describe component temperatures.
@highlight The best schemes to estimate component temperatures at any time were determined.
@highlight The influences of LST retrieval error emissivity uncertainty and FVC were analyzed in detail.
