 Land surface temperature is a key diagnostic indicator of agricultural water use and crop stress . LST data retrieved from thermal infrared band imagery however tend to have a coarser spatial resolution than surface reflectance data collected from shortwave bands on the same instrument . Spatial sharpening of LST data using the higher resolution multi band SR data provides an important path for improved agricultural monitoring at sub field scales . A previously developed Data Mining Sharpener approach has shown great potential in the sharpening of Landsat LST using Landsat SR data co collected over various landscapes . This work evaluates DMS performance for sharpening ECOsystem Spaceborne Thermal Radiometer Experiment on Space Station LST and Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite LST data using Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel 2 SR data providing the basis for generating 30 m LST data at a higher temporal frequency than afforded by Landsat alone . To account for the misalignment between ECOSTRESS VIIRS and Landsat HLS caused by errors in registration and orthorectification we propose a modified version of the DMS approach that employs a relaxed box size for energy conservation . Sharpening experiments were conducted over three study sites in California and results were evaluated visually and quantitatively against LST data from unmanned aerial vehicles flights and from Landsat 8 . Over the three sites the modified DMS technique showed improved sharpening accuracy over the standard DMS for both ECOSTRESS and VIIRS suggesting the effectiveness of relaxing EC box in relieving misalignment induced errors . To achieve reasonable accuracy while minimizing loss of spatial detail due to the EC box size increase an optimal EC box size of 180270m was identified for ECOSTRESS and about 780m for VIIRS data based on experiments from the three sites . Results from this work will facilitate the development of a prototype system that generates high spatiotemporal resolution LST products for improved agricultural water use monitoring by synthesizing multi source remote sensing data .

@highlight A modified thermal sharpening method for multi platform data is proposed.
@highlight The method is tested using Harmonized Landsat Sentinel ECOSTRESS and VIIRS data.
@highlight Relaxing the box size for energy conservation leads to improved performance.
@highlight We suggest a box size of 180270m and 780m for ECOSTRESS and VIIRS sharpening.
