 Cropping intensity has undergone dramatic changes worldwide due to the effects of climate changes and human management activities . Cropping intensity is an important factor contributing to crop production and food security at local regional and national scales and is a critical input data variable for many global climate land surface and crop models . To generate annual cropping intensity maps at large scales Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer images at 500 m or 250 m spatial resolution have problems with mixed land cover types within a pixel and Landsat images at 30 m spatial resolution suffer from low temporal resolution . To overcome these limitations we developed a straightforward and efficient pixel and phenology based algorithm to generate annual cropping intensity maps over large spatial domains at high spatial resolution by integrating Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2 time series image data for 20162018 using the Google Earth Engine platform . In this pilot study we report annual cropping intensity maps for 2017 at 30 m spatial resolution over seven study areas selected according to agro climatic zones in China . Based on field scale sample data the annual cropping intensity maps for the study areas had overall accuracy rates of 8999 with Kappa coefficients of 0.760.91 . The overall accuracy of the annual cropping intensity maps was 93 with a Kappa coefficient of 0.84 . These cropping intensity maps can also be used to enable identification of various crop types from phenological information extracted from the growth cycle of each crop . These algorithms can be readily applied to other regions in China to generate annual cropping intensity maps and quantify inter annual cropping intensity variations at the national scale with a greatly improved accuracy .

@highlight Algorithm for identifying cropping intensity was developed at large scales and high spatial resolution.
@highlight 30m cropping intensity map in 7 study areas of China by integrating Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2
@highlight Maps had accuracies between 89 and 99 all over China.
