 Anthropogenic heat flux is a main contributor to the formation of surface urban heat islands . Megacities in particular are facing severe problems due to excessive population growth urban area expansion human activity increased energy consumption and increased anthropogenic heat . In this study a physical modeling approach based on a triple source surface energy balance model was developed to uncover the effect of AHF on land surface temperature and surface anthropogenic heat island intensity . For this purpose satellite imagery along with climatic and meteorological data from 1985 to 2019 were studied for six selected megacities Los Angeles Atlanta Athens Istanbul Tehran and Beijing . First LST and the fraction of different surface covers were calculated by using a single channel algorithm and a normalized spectral mixture analysis model respectively . In the second step impervious surface cover and the urban main boundary area of each city were extracted based on the biophysical composite index and city clustering algorithm respectively . In the third step anthropogenic LST was modeled using a triple SEB model . In the fourth step the ALST and UMBA were used together to model SAHI intensity at different dates . Finally the relationship between the estimated ALST and ISC as well as between SAHI and ISC was examined . Results show that the average value of estimated ALST for the megacities increased from 2.02 0.55 0.61 0.64 0.58 and 0.72 to 2.99 1.73 1.66 1.19 2.32 and 2.76C respectively . The coefficient of determination between the mean value of ISC and the estimated ALST for all megacities yielded 0.8 which was higher than that between ISC and satellite derived LST . Moreover the SAHI intensity for these megacities was found to have increased to 0.73 0.92 0.95 0.98 0.95 and 1.32C respectively which can be predicted by ISC with a coefficient of determination of 0.78 0.79 0.79 0.73 0.71 and 0.52 respectively . This suggests that the triple SEB model proposed by this study allowed for independent modeling of AHF s influence on SUHI and a better determination of the effect of ISC on LST and SUHI intensity . This approach facilitated comparative analysis of LST and SAHI for a city at different times as well as SAHIs in different cities with different geographic and climate settings .

@highlight A novel method based on triple source energy balance model developed for LST
@highlight LST due to anthropogenic heat flux used to model surface anthropogenic heat island
@highlight SAHI and the effect of ISC on SUHI in five global megacities were investigated.
@highlight Better determination and modeling of the effect of ISC on LST and SUHI intensity
@highlight New method for comparative analysis of LST and SAHI at different times and cities
