 Microplastics in aquatic systems can act as a vector for various toxic contaminants such as metal ions . Although some studies have investigated the adsorption characteristics of metal ions on MPs the desorption behaviors of metal ions from MPs in different environments are largely unknown . Here the adsorption of cadmium onto five different types of MPs were compared to examine the relationship between the surface characteristics and the adsorption properties of MPs . Our results showed that polyamide had the highest Cd adsorption capability with a value of 1.700.04mg g followed by polyvinyl chloride polystyrene acrylonitrile butadiene styrene and polyethylene terephthalate . The specific surface area and total pore volume were closely correlated with the adsorption capacity of the MPs and the interaction electrostatic interaction and oxygen containing functional groups played crucial roles in the adsorption of Cd onto the MPs . The sorption capabilities of Cd onto the MPs first increased and then decreased with increasing solution pH from 2.0 to 9.0 . In addition the adsorption capacities were suppressed with the presence of lead ions while the coexistence of phenanthrene had a minor impact . Interestingly the presence of humic acid promoted the desorption of Cd from the MPs both in the synthetic earthworm gut and in the sediment system . A higher desorption rate was observed in the simulated gut environment suggesting that metal contaminated MPs would pose higher ecological risks to macroinvertebrates . Overall our findings provide a better understanding of the sorption mechanism of Cd onto MPs and the desorption behavior under different environmental conditions in aquatic ecosystems .

@highlight Polyamide had the highest Cd II adsorption capacity among the MPs studied.
@highlight The adsorption of Cd II onto MPs could be greatly altered by aquatic environment changes.
@highlight The presence of humic acid in water promoted the desorption of Cd II from MPs.
@highlight The rate of desorption of Cd II from MPs was higher in the gut environment than in the sediment systems.
