 For decades photolysis and photocatalysis have been touted as promising environment benign and robust technologies to degrade refractory pollutants from water . However extensive large scale engineering applications remain limited now . To facilitate the technology transfer process earlier reviews have advocated to developing more cost effective and innocuous materials maximizing efficiency of photon usage and optimizing photoreactor systems mostly from material and reactor improvement perspectives . However there are also some fundamental yet critical chemistry issues in photolysis processes demanding more in depth understanding and more careful consideration . Hence this review summarizes some of these challenges . Of them the first and paramount issue is the interference of coexisting compounds including dissolved organic matter anions cations and spiked additives . Secondly considerable concerns are pointed to the formation of undesirable reaction by products such as halogenated nitrogenous and sulfur containing compounds which might increase instead of reduce toxicity of water if inadequate fluence and catalyst additive are supplied due to time and cost constraints . Lastly a critical issue lies in the uncertainty of current approaches used for identifying and quantifying radicals especially when multiple radicals coexist together under changing and interconvertible conditions . The review hence highlights the needs to better understand these fundamental chemistry issues and meanwhile calls for more delicate design of experiments in future studies to overcome these barriers .

@highlight Some chemistry challenges limiting photo cata lysis applications are reviewed.
@highlight Coexisting compounds may cause unsatisfying performance of photo cata lysis.
@highlight Formation of undesirable compounds is a barrier for UV technology application.
@highlight Current determination methods for radicals require more in depth understandings.
@highlight Quantifying H
@highlight reliably in water might provide useful insights to UV processes.
