 Microplastics are ubiquitous in freshwater environments and represent an emerging anthropogenic vector for contaminants such as trace metals . In this study virgin expanded polystyrene particles were placed in a eutrophic urban lake and a reservoir serving as the resource of domestic water for 4 weeks to develop biofilms on the surface . For comparison natural adsorbents in the form of suspended particles and surficial sediment were also sampled from these waterbodies . The trace metal adsorption properties of anthropogenic and natural substrates were investigated and compared via batch adsorption experiments . The adsorption isotherms fitted the Langmuir model revealed that biofilms could enhance the trace metal adsorption capacity of MPs . However natural substrates still had a greater adsorption capacity . Biofilms also alter the adsorption kinetics of trace metals onto MPs . The process of adsorption onto virgin MPs was dominated by intraparticle diffusion whereas film diffusion governed adsorption onto biofilm covered microplastics and natural substrates . The trace metal adsorption of all the substrates was significantly dependent on pH and ionic strength . The adsorption mechanisms were further analyzed by SEM EDS and FT IR . The enhancement of adsorption was mainly attributed to complexation with functional groups contained in the biofilms including carboxyl amino and phenyl OH . Collectively biofilm development intensifies the role of MPs in the migration and fate of trace metals in freshwater since it does not give MPs an edge over natural substrates in adsorption .

@highlight Microplastics act as anthropogenic vectors of trace metals in freshwaters.
@highlight Adsorption capacity of microplastics is enhanced by biofilms but is not strong as natural substrates.
@highlight Biofilms alter the adsorption kinetics and mechanisms of trace metals onto microplastics.
@highlight Microplastics enhance exchange rates of trace metals between water and solid materials.
@highlight Anthropogenic substrate is necessary in evaluation of migration and fate of trace metals.
