 The formation and occurrence of haloacetonitriles in drinking water is of increasing concern because recent data have shown that they are the major contributors to DBP associated toxicity of disinfected waters . Earlier research on HAN formation had established free amino acids as important HAN precursors due to their high reactivity with chlorine . However free amino acids are unlikely to be the primary precursors for HANs in natural waters mainly because the actual concentrations of these compounds are too low to sufficiently account for observed HAN formation . On the other hand combined amino acids are of much higher abundance even though it is unclear if they can contribute to HAN formation given that nearly all the amino nitrogen is tied up in peptide linkages . In order to clarify the reactivity of combined amino acids with chlorine to form HANs dichloroacetonitrile formation kinetics was compared between free aspartic acid and two aspartyl containing tetrapeptides . Results indicated that aspartyl residue could also lead to DCAN formation upon chlorination whereas the rate of DCAN formation was much slower compared to that from free aspartic acid chlorination . Moreover DCAN formation from the two model peptides was catalyzed by high pH . This is because chlorine induced peptide backbone degradation is the key to DCAN formation from the chlorination of combined amino acids and this slow stepwise process is base catalyzed . Perhaps most importantly regardless of the precursors DCAN was continuously formed but simultaneously degraded especially at alkaline pHs leaving the corresponding

@highlight DCAN formation kinetics investigated during free and combined aspartic acid chlorination.
@highlight DCAN continuously forms and simultaneous degrades to stable
@highlight  DCAM and DCAA as end products.
@highlight Chlorine induced stepwise peptide degradation process is a possible pathway to DCAN formation.
@highlight Aggregate calculated toxicity peaks at short water age due to the transition from DCAN to end products.
