 Odors from wastewater treatment plants have attracted extensive attention and stringent environmental standards are more widely adopted to reduce odor emissions . Biological odor treatment methods have broader applications than the physical and chemical counterparts as they are environment friendly cost effective and generate low secondary wastes . The aqueous activated sludge processes are among the most promising approaches for the prevention or end of pipe removal of odor emissions and have the potential to simultaneously treat odor and wastewater . However AS deodorization biotechnologies in WWTPs still need to be further systematically summarized and categorized while in depth discussions on the characteristics and underlying mechanisms of AS deodorization process are still lacking . Recently considerable studies have been reported to elucidate the microbial metabolisms in odor control and wastewater treatment . This paper reviews the fundamentals characteristics advances and field experiences of three AS biotechnologies for odor treatment in WWTPs i.e . AS recycling microaeration in AS digester and AS diffusion . The underlying deodorization mechanisms of typical odors have been revealed through the summary of recent advances on multi element conversions metabolic interactions of bacteria microscopic characterization and identification of functional microorganisms . Future research aspects to advance the emerging deodorization AS process such as deodorization mechanisms simultaneous odor and water treatment synergistic treatment with other air emissions are discussed .

@highlight Activated sludge AS processes are promising in odor control.
@highlight Polysulfide plays an important role in H
@highlight S production.
@highlight Poly S is stored intracellularly or extracellularly in biological sulfur conversions.
@highlight Chemical and biochemical deodorization mechanisms were revealed.
@highlight Diverse future aspects of the emerging deodorization AS process were proposed.
