 Wastewater from food processing facilities can have high nutrient valorisation potential . Valorising sugar rich agro industrial wastewater may have significant impacts on sustainability of wastewater treatment plant . The objective of this study is to evaluate the environmental economic and social impacts of a novel wastewater valorisation technology . This technology is designed to produce single cell protein from wastewater of a fruit juice processing facility . To evaluate the comprehensive sustainability impacts on WWTP and overall background economy a hybrid life cycle assessment model was developed by combining the multi regional input output database with process based life cycle inventories of conventional and AgroCycle WWTP . The results indicated the upstream impacts of wastewater could have significant influence on sustainability of WWTP with nutrient valorisation . Therefore the zero burden assumption should not be adopted for upstream wastewater . For the sustainability performance valorising nutrients from WWTP with AgroCycle technology can improve the environmental performance of WWTP . However the positive social economic impacts were directly associated with WWTP system not the whole background economy . The production of SCP could reduce the Gross Value Added and employment in the oil seeds sector . In order to improve the social economic impacts and promote a circular bioeconomy model in the fruit juice sector further development is required to improve valorisation productivity and create a better value chain for valorised products .

@highlight First hybrid life cycle assessment model for wastewater treatment plant with nutrient valorisation.
@highlight Gross value added employment and climate change of wastewater treatment plant were evaluated.
@highlight Upstream impacts of wastewater have significant influence on sustainability of treatment plant.
@highlight Novel SCP technology could improve the environmental impact of wastewater treatment plant.
@highlight Development is required to improve the social economic impacts of wastewater treatment plant.
