 The western basin of Lake Erie experiences annual Harmful Algal Blooms which degrade water quality threaten drinking water supplies and deter recreation . The size of HABs in Lake Erie is highly correlated with the external loading of phosphorus from a major tributary the Maumee River during spring and summer months . Because HAB size is largely explained by external loading the contribution of P from lake sediments is considered to be minimal . However if lake sediments become warmer and more hypoxic or anoxic in response to climate change the relative contribution of internal P loading from sediments may become greater . In this study we examined the potential effect of elevated lake temperatures on internal loading of P under anoxic conditions . Sediment cores were collected during Summer 2014 from 4 locations in the western basin of Lake Erie ranging from highly productive areas near Maumee Bay to less productive offshore areas . Cores were incubated for 4 days under anoxic conditions under different temperatures . P flux varied greatly between temperature treatments and sites . Average P flux at 20C and 30C were 2 and 14 times higher respectively than for cores incubated at 10C . The site closest to the mouth of the Maumee River had the highest P flux 10 times higher than the furthest site and highest total P concentration in the surface sediment 2 times higher than the furthest site suggesting a gradient of sediment P characteristics associated with the Maumee River plume . Extrapolating these fluxes across the western basin suggests that with four days of anoxia at 30C lake sediments could contribute 415 metric tons of dissolved P which is equivalent to the springtime dissolved P loading from the Maumee River for 2011 the second largest HAB on record .

@highlight Under anoxic conditions phosphorus flux increases with temperature.
@highlight Phosphorus flux increases with duration of anoxia.
@highlight Anoxic phosphorus flux is influenced by phosphorus content in sediments.
@highlight Under elevated temperatures anoxic phosphorus flux can be a significant source.
