 The optimum operation strategy for a side stream external anaerobic self forming dynamic membrane bioreactor was investigated by coupling such a system with an up flow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor . Time based backwashing with different intervals and transmembrane pressure based backwashing were compared as the operation strategies of the AnSFDMBR . The system performance extracellular polymeric substance accumulation in the dynamic layer and on the membrane mesh of the AnSFDMBR and the physical properties of the dynamic layer were closely monitored . Both operation strategies achieved stable operation with effluent turbidity less than 5 nephelometric turbidity units with a slowly increasing TMP . However with the time based backwashing strategy the EPS accumulation rate in the dynamic layer was more than 20 times higher than that on the mesh indicating that frequent backwashing might have a negative impact on the AnSFDMBR . The impacts of EPS accumulation on the membrane mesh were negligible considering the small amount of EPS residual and the large pore size of the mesh . On the contrary the EPS accumulation in the dynamic layer changed the layer s physical properties and further impacted on the performance of the AnSFDMBR . The accumulation of polysaccharides in the dynamic layer was the main reason for the layer s compactness which was negatively correlated with the specific surface area and further led to the TMP increase . The polysaccharides in the dynamic layer to sludge ratio increased to around 1.6 with only 5 days of time base operation . With TMP based operation it took more than 10 days for polysaccharides in the dynamic layer to sludge ratio reaching 1.6 . The low TMP increase rate high effluent quality and slow EPS accumulation with TMP based backwashing indicated TMP based operation is applicable in the studied AnSFDMBR . Nevertheless the correlation between TMP and the accumulation of polysaccharides should be further investigated to find the optimum TMP for backwashing .

@highlight EPS accumulation rate in dynamic layer is much faster than that on mesh.
@highlight The impacts of EPS accumulation on the mesh on AnSFDMBR are negligible.
@highlight EPS accumulation rate is much lower with TMP based operation than time based one.
@highlight EPS in dynamic layer changes its property and impacts AnSFDMBR performance.
@highlight TMP increase and dynamic layer compactness are due to polysaccharide accumulation.
