 High solid anaerobic digestion can directly treat dewatered sewage sludge with superior volume efficiency . Sludge stabilization during HAD is expected to achieve by throughout organic degradation and conversion towards methane rich biogas release and humic formation . Sewage sludge is the combination of microbial zoogleas and theirs adsorption of organic and inorganic matter in which the extracellular polymeric substances account 6080 of total sludge organic matter inevitably participating most extracellular metabolic pathways . The interactions between EPS transformation and genetically annotated metabolic pathways were found in this research . In brief noticing the highly cross linked structures in EPS with major active components of humic substances and protein as PN hydrolysis and decomposition in EPS were enhanced in the high solid anaerobic condition the exposure of aromatic groups and sites in HS were considerable . HS release was the main factor shifting the electron exchange capacity and activity which aided in energy metabolism of sludge microorganisms involved in redox reactions especially the methanogenesis thus in turn facilitating the PN degradation Then the screened humic groups and active protein derives might act as the beneficial precursors to regenerate neo humic structures whose significant bridging effect and signal role on stimulating amino acid biosynthesis member transport and metallic complexation could further contribute to proteolytic condensation and EPS reconstruction . Hence the in depth sludge stabilization mechanism during HAD process was established for developing enlightening strategies .

@highlight Considerable HS initially released from EPS protein binding structures disruption.
@highlight HS most determine the KEGG modules distribution p 0.05 during HAD.
@highlight HS exposure enhanced redox capacity of EPS and microbial energy metabolism.
@highlight HS release facilitated PN decomposition and prepared for aromatic regeneration.
@highlight PN condensation and EPS reconstruction mediated by HS achieve sludge stabilization.
