 A model based study was developed to analyse the behaviour of Moving Bed Biofilm Reactor and Integrated Fixed Film Activated Sludge reactor configurations for the removal of nitrogen in the main water line of municipal wastewater treatment plants via partial nitritation anammox . The basic principles and underlying mechanisms linking operating conditions to process performance were investigated with particular focus on nitrite oxidizing bacteria repression and resulting volumetric conversion rates . The external mass transfer resistance is a major factor differentiating granular sludge PN AMX processes from MBBR or IFAS systems . The external mass transfer resistance was found to promote the metabolic coupling between anammox and ammonia oxidizing bacteria crucial for NOB repression in the biofilm . Operation at low bulk DO prevents NOB proliferation in the flocs of IFAS systems as AMX activity limits nitrite availability . Importantly the effectiveness of the AMX nitrite sink strongly depends on the AMX sensitivity to oxygen . Also over a broad range of operational conditions the seeding of AOB from the biofilm played a crucial role in maintaining their activity in the flocs . From a practical perspective while low DO promotes NOB repression lower nitrogen loads have to be applied to maintain the same effluent quality . Thus a trade off between NOB repression and volumetric conversion capacity needs to be defined . To this end IFAS allow for higher volumetric rates but the window of operating conditions with effective NOB repression is smaller than that for MBBR . Ultimately this study identified the principles controlling NOB in MBBR and IFAS systems and the key differences with granular reactors allowing for the interpretation of published experimental results .

@highlight Higher external mass transfer resistance favours NOB repression.
@highlight IFAS has reduced operating conditions range despite achieving higher removal rates.
@highlight AOB seeding from biofilm is crucial for stability of IFAS systems.
@highlight Anammox nitrite sink is strongly affected by the inhibition of anammox by oxygen.
