 Iron electrocoagulation is an effective technology to remove arsenic from groundwater used for drinking . A commonly noted limitation of Fe EC is fouling or passivation of electrode surfaces via rust accumulation over long term use . In this study we examined the effect of removing electrode surface layers on the performance of a large scale Fe EC plant in West Bengal India . We also characterized the layers formed on the electrodes in active use for over 2yearsat this plant . The electrode surfaces developed three distinct horizontal sections of layers that consisted of different minerals calcite Fe precipitates and magnetite near the top magnetite in the middle and Fe precipitates and magnetite near the bottom . The interior of all surface layers adjacent to the Fe metal was dominated by magnetite . We determined the impact of surface layer removal by mechanical abrasion on Fe EC performance by measuring solution composition and electrochemical parameters during electrolysis . After electrode cleaning the Fe concentration in the bulk solution increased substantially from 15.2 to 41.5mg L. This higher Fe concentration led to increased removal of a number of solutes . For As the concentration reached below the 10g L WHO MCL more rapidly and with less total Fe consumed after cleaning compared to before cleaning . Similarly the removal of P and Si improved after cleaning by 0.3mg L kWh and 1.1mg L kWh respectively . Our results show that mechanically removing the surface layers that accumulate on electrodes over extended periods of Fe EC operation can restore Fe EC system efficiency . Since Fe release into the bulk solution substantially increased upon electrode cleaning our results also suggest that routine electrode maintenance can ensure robust and reliable Fe EC performance over year long timescales .

@highlight We studied the impact of electrode surface layer growth on arsenic treatment by FeEC.
@highlight After 2 years of EC plant operation thick surface layers formed 3 distinct regions .
@highlight Surface layers decreased transport of anodically produced Fe II to bulk solution.
@highlight Mechanical cleaning of electrodes restored Fe II transport to bulk solution.
@highlight Electrode cleaning greatly improved arsenic removal and decreased power consumption.
