 In the more than 15 years since its introduction quantitative microbial risk assessment has become a widely used technique for assessing population health risk posed by waterborne pathogens . However the variation in approaches taken for QMRA in relation to drinking water supply is not well understood . This systematic review identifies categorises and critically synthesises peer reviewed and academic case studies of QMRA implementation for existing distributed public drinking water supplies . Thirty nine English language peer reviewed and academic studies published from 2003 to 2019 were identified . Key findings were synthesised in narrative form . The overall designs of the included studies varied widely as did the assumptions used in risk calculation especially in relation to pathogen dose . There was also substantial variation in the degree to which the use of location specific data weighed with the use of assumptions when performing risk calculation . In general the included studies complexity did not appear to be associated with greater result certainty . Factors relating to pathogen dose were commonly influential on risk estimates whereas dose response parameters tended to be of low relative influence . In two of the included studies use of the susceptible fraction factor was inconsistent with recognised guidance and potentially led to the underestimation of risk . While approaches and assumptions used in QMRA need not be standardised improvement in the reporting of QMRA results and uncertainties would be beneficial . It is recommended that future authors consider the water supply QMRA reporting checklist developed for the current review . Consideration of the broad types of uncertainty relevant to QMRA is also recommended . Policy makers should consider emergent discussion on acute microbial health based targets when setting normative guidelines . The continued representation of QMRA case studies within peer reviewed and academic literature would also enhance future implementation . Further research is needed on the optimisation of QMRA resourcing given the application context .

@highlight First systematic review of QMRA implementation for public drinking water supplies.
@highlight Current approaches varied most for deriving dose and varied least for dose response.
@highlight Factors for dose were commonly the most influential determinant of risk.
@highlight QMRA study complexity did not indicate greater certainty of risk estimates.
@highlight Greater consistency in reporting QMRA assumptions would be beneficial overall.
