 The function of the microbiomes in wastewater treatment systems and anaerobic digesters is dictated by the physiological activity of their members and complex interactions between them . Since functional traits are often conserved at low taxonomic ranks high resolution taxonomic classification is crucial to understand the role of microbes in any ecosystem . Here we present MiDAS 3 a comprehensive 16S rRNA gene reference database based on full length 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequence variants derived from activated sludge and anaerobic digester systems in Denmark . The new database proposes unique provisional names for all unclassified microorganisms down to species level providing a new and much needed tool for microbiome research . The MiDAS 3 database was used to analyze the microbiome in 20 Danish wastewater treatment plants with nutrient removal sampled over 13 years . The 50 most abundant species belonged to 42 genera including 14 genera with provisional midas name . Of those 20 have no known function in the system which highlights the need for more efforts towards elucidating the role of important members of wastewater treatment ecosystems . The new MiDAS 3 database also forms the backbone of the MiDAS Field Guide an online resource linking the identity of microorganisms in wastewater treatment systems to available data related to their functional importance . The new field guide contains a complete list of genera and species found in activated sludge and anaerobic digesters in Denmark but is also relevant to wastewater systems across the world . The identity of the microbes is linked to functional information where available and the website provides the possibility to BLAST new sequences against the MiDAS 3 database . The MiDAS Field Guide is a collaborative platform acting as an online knowledge repository facilitating understanding of wastewater treatment ecosystem function .

@highlight MiDAS3 provides a comprehensive reference database for wastewater treatment system.
@highlight MiDAS3 provides species level classification and
@highlight names for unclassified taxa.
@highlight The microbiome in Danish WWTPs with nutrient removal is described in details.
@highlight Function of almost 50 of the abundant bacteria is unknown.
@highlight MiDAS Field Guide is upgraded with BLAST and MiDAS taxonomy search tools.
