 The accumulation of fat oil and grease deposits in sewer pipes reduces their conveyance and results in Sanitary Sewer Overflows . Previous research has shown that concrete used in sewer lines is a significant source for calcium ion which participates in the FOG deposit formation mechanism . However no research has been conducted to understand the effect of calcium leaching from cement on FOG deposits formation and adhesion . This study quantifies the reduction in FOG deposit formation when Fly Ash a Supplementary Cementitious Material is used to replace cement in the production of High Volume Fly Ash concrete materials . Results show that after 90 days of leaching test under controlled pH conditions 75 and 86 reduction in calcium release were achieved from 50 and 75 FA replacement respectively . After 30 days of FOG deposits formation tests on HVFA samples 58 and 81 reduction in FOG deposit formation was found for 50 and 75 FA replacement respectively . FTIR analyses of FOG deposits formed on concrete samples without FA replacement exhibited high calcium soap content while FOG deposit formed on HVFA concrete materials showed low calcium soap percentage . Furthermore FTIR analyses report the first spatial variation found in FOG deposits that includes a surface layer of hard FOG deposits with high calcium soap absorbance and an outer layer of soft FOG deposits consisting of a low calcium absorbance . FTIR analyses revealed that the FOG deposit formation mechanism is affected by the availability of calcium and pH near the concrete surface . Finally HVFA concrete materials were tested for compressive strength and durability against microbially induced concrete corrosion . After 180 days of sealed curing HVFA concrete exhibited adequate compressive strength necessary for the sewer line construction and 50 FA replacement revealed satisfactory durability against MICC .

@highlight New sewer line materials reduce FOG deposit formation and adhesion.
@highlight FOG deposits exhibit spatial soap variation on concrete surface.
@highlight Calcium hydroxide leaching from concrete affects FOG deposit formation and adhesion.
