 Natural aged microplastics with changed surface properties accumulate redistribute and spread in all water fields as carriers of hazardous substances . The combined hazard of co contamination of microplastics and hazardous substances expands the ecological risks which urgently needs to design treatment schemes for pollutant removal from microplastics . In this paper a facile and applicable magnetic biochar with porosity and graphitization was prepared for realizing the goal of metal removal from the microplastics . Heterogeneous catalysis of persulfate activated by PGMB achieved the decomposition of organics with the decrease of more than 60 of the attached Pb on the surface of microplastics and the adsorbed metal amount by PGMB in this system is much higher than that by the individual PGMB group . Analysis demonstrated that the organic layer covered on the microplastic surface over the long term weathering provided the key sites for metal sorption whose decomposition and peeling were the critical steps in whole process . The prepared PGMB was responsible for activating PS to produce reactive species for decomposing the organic matter accompanied with detaching metals from microplastic surface also would keep the role for re adsorption of the released metals and separation from aqueous phase by magnetic force . The influences of natural environmental factors including salinity common matrix species and temperature on the performance of PGMB PS system for metal removal from microplastics were discussed to illustrate the universality of the scheme in saline or organic rich waters . The results of this study provided underlying insights for removing metals from microplastic surface and decreasing the harm risks in the co contamination of microplastics and hazardous substances .

@highlight PGMB PS achieved a Pb removal efficiency of more than 60 from microplastic surface.
@highlight Organic matter covered on the microplastic acts as the key role for metal sorption.
@highlight Decomposition and peeling of organic layer on microplastic surface are critical.
@highlight The released metals were re adsorbed and separated from aqueous phase using PGMB.
