 Antifouling paints are biocidal products applied to ship and boat hulls in order to prevent the growth and settlement of marine organisms i.e . fouling . The release of biocides from the surface of the paint film act to repel or poison potential settling organisms . Currently the most commonly used biocide in antifouling paints is cuprous oxide . In the EU antifouling products are regulated under the Biocidal Products Regulation which states that the recommended dose should be the minimum necessary to achieve the desired effect . For antifouling products the dose is measured as the release rate of biocide from coating . In this study the release rates of copper and zinc from eight different coatings for leisure boats were determined through static exposure of coated panels in four different harbors located in Swedish waters along a salinity gradient ranging from 0 to 27 PSU . The results showed the release rate of copper to increase with increasing salinity . Paints with a higher content of cuprous oxide were also found to release larger amounts of copper . The coatings ability to prevent biofouling was also evaluated and no significant difference in efficacy between the eight tested products was observed at the brackish and marine sites . Hence the products with high release rates of copper were equally efficient as those with 4 6 times lower releases . These findings suggest that current antifouling paints on the market are leaching copper in excess of the effective dose in brackish and marine waters . Additionally the results from the freshwater site showed no benefit in applying a copper containing paint for the purpose of fouling prevention . This indicates that the use of biocidal paints in freshwater bodies potentially results in an unnecessary release of copper . By reducing the release rates of copper from antifouling paints in marine waters and restricting the use of biocidal paints in freshwater the load of copper to the environment could be substantially reduced .

@highlight Antifouling paints for leisure boats leach copper in excess.
@highlight 80 reduction in copper emission is possible for some products.
@highlight Copper release rates and fouling pressure found to increase with increased salinity.
@highlight Copper paints in freshwater had no antifouling effect.
@highlight Critical release rates of copper mapped for the Baltic Sea and Kattegat.
