 Sewage sludge is an inevitable by product of biological wastewater treatment process and contains various toxic substances such as pathogens heavy metals and organic contaminants . The production of sewage sludge may cause serious pollution risks without appropriate disposals . As the essential step of sludge treatment dewatering plays significant roles in minimizing the sludge volume facilitating the transportation increasing the calorific value and even reducing the leachate production in landfill sites . This paper presents a comprehensive review on the issues related to dewatering of sewage sludge . Section 1 starts with the environmental implications of sludge dewatering . Section 2 deals with the concepts and challenges about differentiation of bound water fractions and also reviews the recent progress of in situ visualization of water occurrence states in bio flocs . Section 3 discusses about how various physiochemical properties influence the sludge dewaterability and the insufficiency in in situ micro characterization of sludge constituents is pointed out . Section 4 reviews the existing conditioning technologies for sludge dewaterability improvement and the advantages disadvantages of each technology in terms of applicable occasions material consumption energy consumption and environmental impacts are evaluated . The last section specifically analyzes the feasibility of integrating sludge dewatering and re utilization and raises attention to the potential environmental risks of dewatering conditioning . Based on the above discussion we propose that a unified theory for sludge dewaterability improvement remains to be established . Especially how the molecular structures of sludge compositions affect the solid water interface behavior requires to be deepened which will further unravel the mechanism behind strong water holding capacities of bio flocs . Additionally we believe that the key challenges for sludge dewatering is how to select the appropriate conditioning technique according to the physiochemical properties of target sludge . The reliable indicators for real time control of conditioning operations are still deficient e.g . dynamic dosage control of conditioning chemicals . Accordingly the potential environmental risks of excessive conditioning chemicals should be taken into more consideration .

@highlight Sludge dewaterability improvement is reviewed from fundamentals to implementations.
@highlight Challenges and recent advances in water differentiation of bio sludge are discussed.
@highlight Micro mechanism analysis on water binding behavior of bio sludge is insufficient.
@highlight Impacts of conditioning operation on sludge utilization should be seriously examined.
