 Elastic buckling properties of thin walled storage rack columns under compression e.g . critical buckling loads are often the input parameters for analytical design solutions . This paper deals with the accurate estimation of the elastic buckling properties of shaped rack sections with patterned holes . The investigation of the elastic buckling behaviour of three different shaped rack sections under compression is presented . More than 4000 finite element simulations were performed on these rack sections using the finite element program ANSYS 18.1 . The influences of the holes perforation pattern number of buckling half wavelengths and boundary conditions on the section buckling behaviour were studied . An alternative method is proposed to generate signature curves for solid rack sections and its effectiveness has been tested to generate signature curves for perforated rack sections . Multi half wavelengths method is proposed to determine the critical buckling loads and critical buckling half wavelengths of perforated rack sections which has been proved to be unbiased and accurate . The results show that by considering the holes the critical buckling loads of the rack sections decreased while the critical buckling half wavelengths increased . The alternative method failed to generate the signature curves of perforated rack sections accurately since the shape functions used for describing the shapes of buckling modes of perforated rack columns are significantly different from those used for solid rack sections .

@highlight Buckling behavior of shaped rack columns with and without patterned holes under compression were investigated.
@highlight Perforation patterns affect the elastic buckling loads of the rack columns studied here.
@highlight Critical elastic buckling loads of perforated rack columns under compression were determined using an accurate method.
@highlight A recommendation was suggested for the AISI S902 standard for the selection of stub rack column length for experiments.
