 Tuned liquid dampers utilize the liquid sloshing to damp vibrations of civil and mechanical structures . Rectangular tank with flat bottom has been widely used for passive structural control . A recent experimental study on the other hand indicates that a TLD with sloped bottom achieves better performance than its flat bottom counterpart considering the improved vibration mitigation and reduced liquid mass . This work investigates the sloshing modal properties of sloped bottom TLD using finite difference method which is validated by full scale tests . It is observed that the sloshing mode shapes are quite different comparing the shallow water sloped bottom TLD with the deep water one . To further reveal the influence of damper geometries on the sloshing modal properties of the sloped bottom TLD three different geometrical parameters have been considered for parametric study e.g . the mean water level of the liquid the slope angle and the ratio between the horizontal projection length of the slope and the total bottom length . It is found that the sloshing eigenfrequencies increase as the mean water level increases as the slope angle decreases and as the length ratio increases . The eigenfrequencies vary with damper geometries in a nonlinear manner and the results from flat bottom TLD always act as upper limit of those from sloped bottom TLD . The developed numerical model in the present study can be used for tuning and preliminary design of structural mounted sloped bottom TLDs .

@highlight A general theoretical framework based on modal expansion technique is presented for modeling sloped bottom TLDs mounted on structures.
@highlight A generalized eigenvalue problem EVP of the sloped bottom TLD is established using finite difference scheme.
@highlight Full scale tests of TLDs are performed for validating numerical models.
@highlight Sloshing modal properties are quite different between shallow and deep water sloped bottom TLDs.
@highlight The sloshing eigenfrequencies vary with damper geometries in a nonlinear manner.
