 Prestressed concrete hollow slab is widely used in the construction of short and medium span highway bridges in China . With the increase in the highway load the shear capacity of hollow slab bridges constructed before the 1990s can no longer meet the requirements of new safety regulations . Further research on the shear capacity of PC hollow slabs is necessary to ensure their safety as these bridges continue to be operational . In this study twelve hollow slabs with spans of 20m 16m and 10m were tested to determine the shear performance of existing PC hollow slabs . Some hollow slabs were reinforced with a 15 cm thick concrete layer on the top surface to determine its effect on the shear capacity . The load displacement curve web strain cracking and ultimate loads and cracking and failure mode of the hollow slab were experimentally determined . The finite element method was used to simulate the shear process . The results show that the 10 m hollow slabs exhibited bending shear failure the 16 m hollow slabs exhibited shear compression failure and the 20 m hollow slabs exhibited diagonal compression failure . Abdominal shear oblique cracks occurred on the webs of the hollow slabs with spans of 16m and 20m whereas bending shear oblique cracks were formed in the 10 m hollow slabs . With post casting of the 15 cm thick concrete layer the cracking loads of the hollow slabs with spans of 10m 16m and 20m increased by 47 32 and 8 whereas the ultimate loads increased by 41 22 and 18 respectively . A comparison of the results calculated based on design specifications and the test results shows that the design provisions for specifications related to the shear capacity are highly conservative . Finally the conventional formula for the shear capacity was modified and new formulas were proposed based on the test results and numerical simulation results to predict the shear capacities of the 10 m and 16 m 20 m PC hollow slabs . For these hollow slabs the mean ratios of the calculated value to the experimental simulated value obtained using the proposed formulas are 0.993 and 0.956 and the variances are 0.005 and 0.013 respectively .

@highlight This study investigates the shear capacity of PC hollow slabs of existing bridges.
@highlight The effect of adding a 15 cm thick concrete layer on shear capacity is explored.
@highlight Slabs of various span lengths were tested under incremental loading until failure.
@highlight The load displacement curves and failure mechanisms are reported.
@highlight Modified formulae for calculating the shear capacities of the slabs are proposed.
