 This article is aimed at investigating the influence of toe support conditions on stability aspects of placed ripraps on steep slopes exposed to overtopping flows . All past experimental model studies investigating placed riprap stability under overtopping conditions have been conducted with ripraps constrained at the toe section . However ripraps constructed on the downstream slopes of rockfill dams are generally not provided with any form of toe support . Hence it is of importance from stability and economical standpoints to understand the failure mechanism in placed ripraps with realistic toe support conditions . This article presents findings from experimental overtopping tests conducted on model placed ripraps unsupported at the toe section . Employing Smartstone probes a new technology in stone movement monitoring laser measurement techniques and Particle Image Velocimetry techniques detailed description of failure mechanism in placed ripraps under overtopping conditions is presented within this study . Study findings demonstrate sliding as the underlying failure mechanism in placed ripraps with unsupported toes . Further comparison of experimental results with past findings revealed that placed ripraps with unrestrained toes experience a fivefold reduction in stability characterized by the critical overtopping magnitude as compared with placed ripraps provided with fixed toe supports . Furthermore toe support conditions were found to have no effects on either the failure mechanism nor the overall stability of dumped ripraps . Further research is recommended to arrive at well defined methodologies for design and construction of toe supports for placed ripraps .

@highlight Investigating influence of toe support on placed riprap stability.
@highlight Smartstone probes laser tracking and imaging techniques are employed.
@highlight Sliding found as underlying failure mechanism in placed riprap with unsupported toe.
@highlight Absence of toe support in placed riprap leads to fivefold stability reduction.
