 Concrete filled steel tube columns have been widely used in the construction industry because of their excellent compression capacity and torsion resistance . Regarding traditional CFST columns the H CFST column with an additional H section steel member embedded in the core concrete provides improved fire and compression resistance . In this study the seismic performance of nine H CFST columns under cyclic torsional and compressioncyclic torsional loads was experimentally analysed . In the experiments the failure mode torque versus torsional angle hysteresis torque versus torsional angle skeleton torsional stiffness degradation and energy dissipation capacity were determined . The hysteretic curves of the H CFST columns under torsion were relatively plump in shape and exhibited no pinching phenomenon and the torsional stiffness of the H CFST columns under unloading and reverse loading was approximately equal to the initial torsional stiffness . In addition the applied compression had remarkable effects on the torsional capacity torsional ductility torsional stiffness and hysteretic loop energy dissipation of the H CFST columns . The shear capacities of the steel and concrete under normal stress or combined normal and shear stress were determined based on the latest theories and test results . Moreover design method for the determination of the torsional capacity of H CFST columns under compressive torsion is proposed based on the test results and the theoretical contribution ratio of the H section steel steel tube and concrete in the H CFST columns to the torsional capacity was determined .

@highlight Seismic performance of H CFST columns under cyclic torsional and compressioncyclic torsional loads is investigated.
@highlight Two types of H CFST columns under cyclic pure torsion and compression torsion are tested.
@highlight Shear capacity of steel and concrete under combined normal and shear stress conditions is firstly studied.
@highlight Design methods of torsional capacities of H CFST columns under cyclic pure torsion and compression torsion are proposed.
