 In a previous contribution the authors proposed a flexible approach for the optimization of self supporting transmission line towers . The scheme takes into account constructional and structural features to allow a direct industrial application . For instance according to CIGR de Souza et al . the magnitude of the bolt slippage effect is highly dependent on the tower topology . Therefore this optimization procedure allows limiting the topologies options aiming to minimize the bolt slippage behavior while maintaining a simple linear elastic analysis . In contrast with this approach in the present study the connections slippage is included in the mechanical model . Due to the computational cost required to solve the nonlinear problem a two stage optimization procedure is employed . Firstly a linear elastic model is used to locate an optimum region and to provide a starting point to the next search . Then the nonlinear bolt slippage is included to refine and improve the optimization . Through this procedure it is possible to search for broader topologies possibilities that can lead to lighter structures or attain configurations that present erection advantages . For the numerical example a single circuit self supported 230kV TLT subjected to nine different load cases is assessed . It is shown that the proposed scheme is able to furnish solutions with constructional advantages and reduce up to 14.6 of the structural weight when compared to a classical size optimization procedure on original structures .

@highlight Nonlinear bolt slippage effect is included in the optimization through a two stage based procedure.
@highlight The optimization is applied to a real 230kV TLT submitted to nine load cases and code constraints.
@highlight The best result found achieves a 16 weight reduction when compared to the size optimization of the original design.
@highlight It is possible to find towers with low weight that simultaneously present behavior close to linear.
@highlight Constructional advantages and lower weight achieved although its nonlinear behavior.
