 A reinforced concrete shear wall is one of the most critical structural members in buildings in terms of carrying lateral loads . Despite its importance post earthquake reconnaissance and recent experimental studies have highlighted the insufficient safety margins of shear walls . The lack of empirical and mechanics based models prevents rapid failure mode identification of existing shear walls . This study builds on recent advances in the area of machine learning to determine the failure mode of shear walls as a function of geometric configurations material properties and reinforcement details . This study assembles a comprehensive database consisting of 393 experimental results for shear walls with various geometric configurations . Eight machine learning models including Nave Bayes K Nearest Neighbors Decision Tree Random Forest AdaBoost XGBoost LightGBM and CatBoost were evaluated in this study in order to establish the best prediction model . As a result of detailed evaluation a machine learning model based on the Random Forest method is proposed in this paper . The proposed method has 86 accuracy in identifying the failure mode of shear walls . This study also demonstrates that aspect ratio boundary element reinforcement indices and wall length to wall thickness ratio are the critical parameters influencing the failure mode of shear walls . Finally an open source data driven classification model that can be used in design offices across the world is provided in this paper . The proposed model has the flexibility to account for additional experimental results yielding new insights .

@highlight Suggest a data driven approach for the failure mode prediction of RC shear walls.
@highlight Construct an experimental database for RC shear walls.
@highlight Compare the performance of prediction models using various machine learning techniques.
@highlight Identify the critical input parameters affecting the failure mode of shear walls.
@highlight Propose the open source data driven classification model.
