 Thin walled box beams generally exhibit complex sectional deformations that are not significant in solid beams . Accordingly a higher order beam theory suitable for the analysis of thin walled box beams should include degrees of freedom representing sectional deformations . In a recent study a recursive analysis method to systematically derive sectional membrane deformations has been proposed to establish a consistent higher order beam theory . In this study another recursive analysis method is proposed that is suitable for the closed form derivation of new sectional bending deformations representing the bending of edges of the cross section shown in a box beam under doubly symmetric loads . A consistent 1D higher order beam theory appropriate to include these additional deformation modes as beam degrees of freedom is also established . The proposed theory provides explicit formulas that relate stresses to generalized forces including self equilibrated forces such as bimoments . Furthermore sectional modes are hierarchically derived so that the level of solution accuracy can be effectively and systematically controlled . Thus the accuracy for static displacement stress calculations and eigenfrequencies can be adjusted to be fully comparable with plate shell results . When general doubly symmetric loads are applied to a box beam the edge membrane modes derived in an earlier study can also be used as additional degrees of freedom besides the edge bending modes derived in this study . The validity of the proposed beam approach is verified through the analyses of static displacements and stresses as well as eigenfrequencies for free vibration problems .

@highlight A method of recursive analysis to derive edge bending mode shapes is established.
@highlight Edge bending modes as many as desired can be derived in close form.
@highlight Explicit stress generalized force relations are derived.
@highlight Rapidly varying end effects were accurately captured by the developed theory.
