 The cable net supported faade is increasingly used in the modern buildings . In a cable net faade the ends of the cables are anchored to the primary structure along its elevation and the faades seismic response is triggered by the earthquake induced vibration of the primary structure . In this regard the effect of the primary structure should be considered in the seismic response analysis of the cable net faades . However such an effect is ignored in most of the preceding research . In this paper the effect of the primary structure on the seismic response of the cable net faade is quantitatively studied . A group of cable net models is subjected to two types of earthquake excitations . First the ground accelerations are uniformly applied to the cable net models . In this case the effect of the primary structure is neglected . Second the ground accelerations are applied to a series of primary structural models generating the height wise non uniform dynamic excitations for the cable nets and the cable nets are subjected to the non uniform excitations . In this case the effect of the primary structure is fully accounted for . A detailed comparison between the two groups of results is conducted . It is shown that the primary structure significantly influences the peak response of the cable net faade and such influences are strongly affected by the fundamental period ratio

@highlight The continuum model is adopted to simulate the response of the primary structure.
@highlight The cable net faade is subjected to the height wise non uniform excitation generated by the primary structure.
@highlight The primary structure significantly influences the peak response of the cable net faade.
@highlight The results are strongly affected by the fundamental period ratio 
@highlight  between the cable net and the primary structure.
@highlight For
@highlight 1.0 the mid span displacement of the cable net faade is doubled due to the effect of the primary structure.
@highlight The tension of cables could exhibit a 20 increase due to the effect of the primary structure at
@highlight 1.0.
