 Compared to conventional normal weight concrete Lightweight Concrete has significantly lower own weight to strength ratio and good thermal insulation . Previous studies showed that the design codes underestimate the strength of LWC beams under pure shear force or pure torsion moment . In addition the behavior and design of LWC T beams under combined bending shear and torsion was never investigated . Thus this current study explores the effect of various parameters on the behavior of lightweight foamed concrete T beams under combined shear torsion and moment . Investigated parameters included the following shear span to depth ratio torsion to shear depth ratio flange to web width ratio and transversal reinforcement ratio . An experimental program was conducted which included testing five T beams under various ratios of combined loading . In addition a numerical model was developed for LWFC T beams under combined loading and verified using available experimental results . Moreover a parametric study was performed to further investigate the effect of the selected parameters on the behavior of LWFC T beams . Last but not least the most recent internationally recognized design code is selected and used to calculate the T beams strength which was compared with the ones from the experimental and numerical investigations . For small values of the shear span to depth ratio the LWFC T beams strength increased with the decrease of the torsion to shear depth ratio compared to those with large values of the shear span to depth ratio . In addition the effect of the flange width was found to be insignificant . Moreover the failure mode for beams with transversal reinforcement ratio above 1.2 changed from under reinforced mode to an over reinforced one . Last but not least the strength predicted using selected design code was found to be overly conservative compared to that experimentally measured and that numerically predicted for LWFC T beams under combined loading .

@highlight Experimentally Exploring the behavior of LWFC T beams under combined loading.
@highlight Identifying effect of various parameters using a numerical model for LWFC T beams under combined loading.
@highlight Failure modes and cracking patterns of LWFC T beams under combined loading.
@highlight Assessing the most recent internationally recognized design codes for LWC beams under combined loading.
