 In coupled wall systems coupling beams distributed along the structural height are intended to yield and dissipate seismic energy under moderate and severe earthquakes . The use of specifically designed dampers in coupling beams can greatly enhance the seismic performance of a structure . In the present study a friction damper incorporating brake pad to mild steel friction interfaces is proposed for installation in a steel coupling beam at the mid span . Cyclic loading tests were conducted on the friction coupons and subassemblages of steel coupling beams with mid span friction dampers . An RC slab which rested on the top flange of the steel coupling beam without shear connectors was included in one of the subassemblage specimens . The test results show that the friction dampers exhibited stable and full hysteretic responses with up to 8 chord rotation of the coupling beams . The friction coefficients were gradually increased and the clamping forces of the dampers relaxed during the cyclic loading . The average friction coefficient was close to the nominal value with a small deviation . However the unintended out of plane bending of the steel teeth of the friction dampers reduced the effective normal force on the friction interfaces and thus led to a lower than expected shear strength of the damper . Though not composited with the steel coupling beam the RC slab sustained severe flexural cracks as wide as 6mm at 4 chord rotation of the coupling beam and thus might influence the postquake recovery of a building . A simple numerical model was established to investigate the respective contribution of each part of the coupling beam . The results show that the post sliding stiffness introduced by the RC slab was less than 1 of the initial stiffness of the coupling beam and decreased rapidly with increasing deformation amplitudes . The shear force in the slab exceeded 10 of the strength of the friction damper at 4 chord rotation and is deemed to be a potential source of overstrength for the design of a coupling beam and the surrounding elements .

@highlight An easy to disassemble friction damper is proposed for use in coupling beams.
@highlight Coupon and subassembly tests verified the performance of the friction dampers.
@highlight Overhead RC slab exhibited severe damage but marginal mechanical contribution.
