 Three dimensional finite element analyses are performed to identify the collapse mechanism of the Daikai station which suffered major structural damage during the 1995 Kobe earthquake . To investigate the damage evolution in the reinforced concrete structure concrete and steel rebars are modeled separately and assembled in a soiltunnel model . Bilinear models are used for both the concrete and steel rebars whereas a nonlinear hysteretic model is used for the soil . Simulation results illustrate that the 3D FE model is capable of accurately reproducing the structural collapse and surface settlement . The cracks are observed to form initially at the outer walls of the tunnels and subsequently in the center column . As the ground motion intensity increases longitudinal and shear cracks form in the center column inducing a significant loss of axial capacity and eventually leading to a structural collapse . Irrecoverable damage initiates in the center column under the combined shear force and bending moment . Therefore it is recommended to utilize the V M failure surface to estimate the onset of structural damage . The damage evolution of the Daikai station is also correlated with the drift ratio of the center column . Additional analyses show that when the equivalent linear soil model is used the calculated peak drift ratio is similar to that obtained using the nonlinear model . However it results in unrealistic gapping at the tunnelsoil interface and lower surface settlement . The no slip condition for the tunnelsoil contact interface produces a pronounced lower response of the tunnel and therefore should not be used in a damage analysis .

@highlight 3D nonlinear finite element model is used to simulate damage evolution of Daikai station during Kobe earthquake.
@highlight Cracks begin to form at the outer walls and subsequently in the center column.
@highlight Structural damage occurs in the center column under combined shear force and bending moment.
@highlight Damage evolution is correlated with drift ratio.
@highlight The no slip interface condition is not recommended to be used in a damage analysis.
