 This research focuses on the development and validation tests of a novel seismic force resisting system named as the Self centering Energy absorbing Dual Rocking Core system for improving seismic resilience in steel building frames . An innovative Shear Friction Spring Damper was developed to provide seismic energy dissipation capacity and self centering characteristic to the SEDRC system . Two Rocking Cores pinned to the ground are introduced in the SEDRC system for obtaining uniform energy absorption and evenly uniform distribution of the inter story drift . The components working principle and mechanical performance of the proposed SEDRC system are first described where its notable perceived advantages compared to the existing rocking system are highlighted . A physical test on the hysteretic behavior of individual friction ring springs used in SFSDs is subsequently introduced . Then the validation test of the SEDRC system is presented where the key properties including the strength stiffness deformability re centering capability and energy absorption capacity are discussed in detail . The experimental test results of the SEDRC specimen show positive and stable flag shaped hysteretic behavior . Nearly no residual drift was observed after removing the applied lateral forces up to 6 roof drift indicating that the SEDRC system has excellent deformability and self centering capability . The two RCs could remain elastic during the entire cyclic loading process and promote uniform distribution of inter story drift in the SEDRC specimen . Moreover the computational model of the SEDRC specimen was developed and verified . Twenty one ground motions were utilized to investigate the dynamic behavior of the SEDRC system . Numerical results further confirm the expected seismic behavior of the SEDRC system .

@highlight The Self centering Energy absorbing Dual Rocking Core system SEDRC was developed.
@highlight Experimental tests on individual friction ring springs were conducted.
@highlight The SEDRC system was physically tested under reversed cyclic loading.
@highlight The system exhibited the intended nonlinear behavior large deformability and self centering capacity.
@highlight The numerical model of the SEDRC system was developed and validated.
