 The pressure impulse diagram method is used in practice for predicting the level of damage sustained by structures when subjected to blast loads and for assessing the imposed loading regime . Each P I curve is associated with a certain structural configuration as well as a specific form of blast load and level of damage sustained . When assessing the effect of different parameters on structural performance a series of new P I curves need to be derived . This paper presents an extended P I diagram method which is based on derivation of complementary diagrams that can define the effect of two parameters on the quasi static and impulsive asymptotes thus governing the positions of P I curves in the diagram plane . The extended P I diagram method is presented in dimensional and normalised forms . The dimensional form simplifies the derivation of new P I curves while the normalised form simplifies the procedure adopted for assessing the behaviour of a certain structure when subjected to a new set of loads . The application of the proposed method is demonstrated in both forms using a typical reinforced concrete column subjected to a blast load . The column is modelled using finite element analysis capable of accounting for the nonlinear behaviour of concrete and steel . A novel method is proposed for material modelling of concrete . The new material model is validated at both material and structural levels against relevant experimental data . P I diagrams are initially derived for the axially unloaded column while complementary diagrams are derived for the column loaded by different axial forces . The framework of the extended P I diagram method employed for the derivation of new P I curves and the assessment of the level of damage sustained by the column when subjected to different loading conditions is provided herein .

@highlight Pressure Impulse diagram method is extended with using complementary diagrams.
@highlight Advantages of extended method are shown using RC column under axial and blast loads.
@highlight RC column is modelled using numerical nonlinear finite element method.
@highlight Novel method is introduced for modelling of concrete material.
@highlight RC column model is extensively validated at both material and structural levels.
