 This paper deals with the development of nonlinear static models for the calculation of capacity curves that are subsequently applied in a scenario based assessment of school buildings . The investigated building types include unreinforced masonry buildings with rigid floors and reinforced concrete buildings with slender shear walls both of which are typical in central Europe . The curves were established by means of simplified mechanics based models of the structures together with the expected failure mechanisms of the structural members from which bilinear capacity curves were calculated . These capacity curves were used to derive fragility curves for a number of predefined earthquake scenarios in Basel Switzerland . This application revealed that with the initial capacity curves developed in this project the damage in the earthquake scenarios was largely overestimated compared to that predicted from empirical intensity based vulnerability models . The initial curves had been determined with models that made use of code recommendations for the assessment of existing structures together with experimental mean material characteristics . Modifications to the modelling procedure including revised assumptions concerning the failure modes and changes to the assumed initial stiffness based on vibration measurements led to revised curves which featured in particular increased ductility . With these updated and validated capacity curves results closer to the empirical intensity based models were obtained . While the type of modelling used herein has its limitations due to simplicity it was still possible to account for the influence of typical characteristics on the relative behaviour and response of the buildings thus justifying the use of analytical capacity and fragility functions as opposed to empirical intensity based models in the final risk assessment .

@highlight Nonlinear simplified mechanics based models for the calculation of capacity curves were developed.
@highlight Capacity curves were calculated for central European RC shear wall and URM building types.
@highlight Typical construction details with their expected failure mechanisms were considered.
@highlight Plausible results were obtained in earthquake scenarios based on these capacity curves.
