 The seismic response of the assembled monolithic subway stations is a complex structural connection problem that depends on the mechanical properties of the precast joint . The main objectives of this study are on one hand to present an experimental campaign on the seismic behavior of key joints obtained from the assembled monolithic subway station and on the other hand to evaluate and analyze the seismic responses of assembled monolithic subway station . Three full scale precast specimens including precast column joint precast sidewall joint and precast beam slab column middle joint were designed and tested . Three monolithic cast in place concrete specimens with identical details namely cast in place column joint cast in place sidewall joint and cast in place beam slab column middle joint served as a control . Based on test results the seismic responses of the monolithic precast subway station are studied under the combined excitation of vertical and horizontal shock of Kobe earthquake motion EI Centro earthquake motion and Beijing artificial earthquake motion with peak ground acceleration ranging from 0.2g to 0.6g . The test results and analyses indicate that precast concrete specimens are capable of matching deformation and strength of the monolithic specimens while the displacement ductility of different specimens were different and it was affected by the axial compression ratio inter story displacement angle of station gradually increases with respective to PGA . The internal force distribution of column and sidewall are slightly different center column becomes key support member and its seismic performance can be used to evaluate the seismic performance of the assembled monolithic subway station .

@highlight Seismic performance of the full scale specimens was tested and compared with conventional cast in place specimens.
@highlight Seismic responses of assembled monolithic subway station was researched.
@highlight The key support member for seismic performance of assembled monolithic subway station was studied.
@highlight Seismic performance evaluation analysis method of assembled monolithic subway station was proposed.
