 A total of 26 full scale walls were investigated with the aim to study the effects of construction details variation on the behavior of the shear walls . The deflected shape of the end studs was found to be non linear with regard to loading level . The bending component seems affected by the rotation of the sheathing panels and nail slip . No significant panel shear deformation was observed . The deflection expression in the wood design standard was found to under estimate the nail slip component . Hold down system used in this study behaved in a non linear manner with higher initial stiffness than that assumed in design . The strength and stiffness correlated almost directly to the inverse of the wall aspect ratios with no clear trends found on ductility . Walls with aspect ratios not permitted according to the wood design standard followed similar strength and stiffness trends and had sufficient ductility ratios as those with lower aspect ratios . Adding more end studs and changing the size of the studs had no significant effect on the overall wall capacity and little effect on its stiffness . The wall strength was significantly affected by the nail diameter and nail spacing but this effect was not linear . The study also showed that having continuous hold down connections has a positive effect on the capacity stiffness and ductility of the wall . Having no hold down adversely affected the wall capacity and stiffness . A shear wall model was developed and the results from the model were compared with those obtained experimentally . It was found that the model was capable of predicting the wall behaviour with reasonable accuracy .

@highlight The design code under estimates the deflection of the wall significantly.
@highlight Bending deflection does not follow the cantilever assumptions.
@highlight No panel shear deformation was observed during the test.
@highlight The deflection was affected by the overall number of studs not solely by the end studs.
@highlight Nail size and spacing had the highest impact on the wall behavior.
