 Understanding and modeling the evolution of structural systems throughout time especially by considering its cumulative damage is a key point for risk decision making . This concept is of extreme importance for design criteria definition operational policies robust life cycle cost estimations and real time dependent vulnerability assessment . In particular an important objective of these type of analyses is the estimation of the structure lifetime distribution and its corresponding mean time to failure . However analytic solutions of these two main concepts are not an easy task . Therefore it is necessary to develop new approaches that can be used to better approximate the lifetime of structures in an accurate and useful way for engineering purposes . Within this context the objective of this research work is to present a methodology to estimate the lifetime distribution of structures and the derived properties of a structural system located in a seismic region . Mainshocks are modelled as a homogeneous Poisson process with constant mean rate of occurrence . The model assumes that the deterioration of a given structure is mainly controlled by the cumulative damage generated by a set of consecutive earthquake events in a certain period of time . This approach can be easily implemented and provides a good estimation of the lifetime distribution of a structure without venturing into the mathematical complexities of an analytic solution but retaining the main features of the system performance . Finally an illustrative practical case at a real site is provided .

@highlight Simplified model assessing lifetime evolution of structures in seismic regions is done.
@highlight The model overcomes the mathematical complexities used in analytical solutions.
@highlight A model easily to implement with a great potential to be used in engineering practice.
@highlight The model assumptions are flexible enough to accommodate various modeling needs.
@highlight A model assessing the cumulative damage in structures due to randomly shock sequences.
