 In recent years Structural Health Monitoring based on Operational Modal Analysis and damage detection tools has become a popular non destructive solution to assess the real time integrity of any kind of structure . This technique is especially well suited for the condition based conservation of historical structures where minimal invasiveness must be ensured owing to their high cultural and architectural value . Optimal Sensor Placement techniques represent a valuable tool for efficiently designing the sensor layout in a SHM system in order to achieve an effective modal identification with a reduced number of sensors and consequently an improved cost efficiency . In this light this paper proposes a design methodology of sensor networks based on OSP techniques suitable for historical structures . To do so a preliminary extensive OMA campaign is conducted in order to construct a reliable finite element model by fitting the identified modal properties . Afterwards an optimal sensor arrangement with a limited number of sensors is obtained by applying different model based OSP techniques . In order to improve the robustness of the solution material uncertainties are included in the model and the optimal sensor placement is conducted within a statistical framework . This methodology is presented and evaluated with a case study of a Spanish secular building the Monastery of San Jernimo de Buenavista in Seville . In particular this paper presents the results of the preliminary ambient vibration test and the modal identification of the monastery the updating process of the FE model as well as a critical review of the different OSP techniques within a framework of material parameter uncertainty . The presented analysis demonstrate that OSP techniques based on the rank optimization of the kinetic energy matrix of the structure yield robust sensor layout .

@highlight Geometrically complex historial masonry building has been analysed.
@highlight Four different FEM based optimal sensor placement methodologies have benn analysed.
@highlight Ambient vibration tests and operational modal analysis technique have been used.
@highlight Genetic algorithms have been used for numerical models updating.
@highlight The effect of model uncertainty on the results of the OSP algorithms has been discussed.
