 The present study provides a formal generalization of the elastic lateral torsional buckling solution based on the Vlasov theory initially intended for monolithic sections to extend its applicability to any number of cross sections connected together to form a monosymmetric assembly . The theory applies the well known Vlasov kinematic assumptions to each of the components and augments them by assuming no relative slip between the components as would be the case when components are bolted or welded . The formulation naturally leads to general expressions for effective sectional properties for the assembly . By adopting the effective sectional property definitions arising from the theory the resulting lateral torsional buckling variational principle for the assembly is cast in a form analogous to that of monolithic sections . Alternative techniques are proposed to estimate the effective warping constant and monosymmetry parameter for assemblies . The solution shows that assemblies of sections connected through plug welds have lower critical moments than those continuously welded at the edges while assemblies with intermittent welds have intermediate critical moment values . It is shown that treating the assembly as a monolithic section yields higher critical moments than assemblies with plug welds . The theory is used to quantify the critical moments in a number of built up applications . Comparisons with the predictions of shell finite element model in Abaqus and S Frame demonstrate the validity of the formulation .

@highlight The Vlasov theory is generalized for assemblies of built up members.
@highlight A lateral torsional buckling solution is developed for built up monosymmetric members.
@highlight General expressions for effective cross sectional properties for built up sections were developed.
@highlight Solutions are developed for bolted and welded assemblies.
@highlight Comparisons with shell finite element solutions demonstrate the validity of the formulation.
