 Exposed to operational uncertainties the investment in railway infrastructure is increasing to improve track resilience to mitigate long term consequences to prolong the track service life and to reduce unplanned maintenance costs and carbon footprint . Under sleeper pads have been widely used in several countries as a resilient component placed underneath concrete sleepers . However it is well known that with any imperfection of either wheel or rail railway tracks usually are incited by impact loading conditions . Accordingly the application of USPs to mitigate the detrimental impact load consequences on track structure is unprecedentedly highlighted in this paper . Despite the common uses of USPs in various countries in Europe the dynamic behaviour of the USPs under high intensity impact loading conditions has not been fully investigated . Note that not only does this study focus on serviceability condition but it also instigates an extreme condition which can occur when there are coupled effects of short and long wavelength defects . This paper thus establishes a 3D finite element model of prestressed concrete sleepers with USPs using LS Dyna . This study has confirmed field measurement data that the sleepers with USPs tend to have lesser flexures contact force and impact energy . However this study is the worlds first to reveal that the vibration of sleeper with USPs could be amplified by the large amplitude impact force which can be induced especially when excited by a high speed train travelling over short pitch rail defects rail joints coupled defects or crossings . It is also noteworthy that a very stiff pad with a bedding modulus of 1N mm

@highlight Three dimensional FE models have been developed and validated by full scale tests of prestressed concrete sleepers.
@highlight It is the first to identify the impact responses of railway concrete sleepers with under sleeper pads exposed to impact loading.
@highlight Increase in insertion losses and decrease of contact pressures from impulse moderation have been highlighted.
@highlight It is the first to reveal the effectiveness of USP in impact load response of railway sleepers.
@highlight Insights will help track engineers to make decision on the design and usage of USP.
