 Reinforced concrete frames with wide beams are efficient systems for resisting against lateral and gravity loads . However there are limited experimental studies on the performance of wide beams under cyclic lateral loading . This paper presents the results of an experimental investigation on seismic behavior of RC exterior wide beam column connections . Four 3 5 scale wide beam column connections were tested under combined constant axial and quasi static cyclic lateral loads . Different spandrel beam types including conventional and wide beam and three column geometries were used in the specimens . The specimens all were designed in accordance with ACI 318 14 and ACI 352R 02 provisions . Special attention was given to reinforcement detailing of wide beam and spandrel beam at the joint area . The test results showed that although all specimens were code conforming and similarly designed for interaction of bending shear and torsion more torsional cracks developed in the cases that transverse beam was wide . The performance of all the specimens was satisfactory in terms of strength ductility and energy dissipation capacity . It was observed that the load transfer mechanism from wide spandrel beam to column is a combination of torsion and bending . In the specimen with circular column higher displacement ductility and lower energy dissipation were observed compared with the similar specimen containing square column . Besides the importance of fine reinforcement detailing for wide and spandrel beam at the joint zone was confirmed by the test results .

@highlight The cyclic behavior of code conforming wide beam connections were investigated.
@highlight The effect of using circular column on the behavior of wide beam was investigated.
@highlight The experimental investigation of wide spandrel and beam column connection.
@highlight The transverse reinforcement of wide beam at the joint region was studied.
@highlight Reducing the transverse bars of the wide beam compared with code was assessed.
