 Using ultra high performance concrete in the hogging moment regions of composite beams might significantly enhance their cracking and flexural performance . In the present paper the flexural test was performed on steel UHPC composite beams with stud connectors and bolt connectors at the interface . Crack resistance ultimate flexural capacity failure modes and deformation characteristics of SU S and SU B under hogging moment were investigated . The test results showed that steel UHPC composite beams exhibited excellent cracking and flexural performance under the hogging moment . As compared to the steel normal strength concrete composite beam cracking load and ultimate flexural capacity of steel UHPC composite beams increased by around 340 and 26 respectively . Moreover the length and width of cracks in the UHPC flange plate developed slowly with load . Many short and small cracks were observed having a close spacing in the UHPC flange plate . However ductility and rotation capacity of both SU S and SU B under the hogging moment were smaller than those of SC S. Due to the bolts slip in SU B the tensile stress in the UHPC flange plate was reduced resulting in higher crack resistance and rotation capacity than SU S while its flexural stiffness and ultimate flexural capacity were slightly smaller than those of SU S. Finally theoretical formulas were proposed for calculation of the slip moment moment at crack width of 0.05mm and ultimate moment of the steel UHPC composite beams under the hogging moment . The test results verify the applicability of these formulas to predict flexural capacity of the steel UHPC composite beams .

@highlight Replacing NSC by UHPC in the hogging moment region of steel concrete composite beams was studied.
@highlight The flexural responses of steel UHPC composite beams with welded stud and high strength bolt connectors were compared.
@highlight The crack resistance and flexural capacity were improved in steel UHPC composite beams.
@highlight The theoretical formulas of flexural capacity of steel UHPC composite beams under hogging moment were constructed.
