 Precast shear wall structures have been widely used in recent years due to their advantages of energy saving environmental protection and efficient construction etc . The validity and reliability of connection methods are the key to ensure the performance of structures . In order to study the seismic behavior of precast short leg shear wall connected with the grouting sleeve a cast in place shear wall and a precast short leg shear wall were designed and produced in this paper respectively . The seismic indexes were obtained by low cyclic reversed loading such as failure mode hysteretic behavior stiffness degradation and energy dissipation capacity etc . The test results indicate that the failure of the specimens are controlled by bending instead of shear but there is a noticeable difference in the cracking distribution between the two types of specimens . The bearing capacity of each feature point of PSSW is close to that of OSSW and the ductility and energy dissipation capacity of PSSW are slightly lower than that of OSSW . The data of test also reveal that the reinforcement bars connected by grouting sleeves are reliable before yielding but the bonding strength between grouting material and the connecting reinforcement bar in the sleeve decrease after yielding . In addition the finite element numerical simulation of PSSW is carried out to study the influence of longitudinal reinforcement ratio on the seismic indexes . With the increase of longitudinal reinforcement ratio the bearing capacity and energy dissipation performance of PSSW are gradually enhanced . but the ductility of the specimen is reduced .

@highlight Seismic failure behavior of precast short leg shear wall and cast in place short leg shear wall under low cyclic loading are reported.
@highlight The different seismic performances of precast short leg shear wall and cast in place short leg shear wall are explored.
@highlight Seismic behavior of precast short leg shear wall with different reinforcement ratios is analyzed by simulation.
@highlight Some guidances of precast concrete members are provided.
