 Reinforced concrete structures often remain stable under fire but exhibit damage and residual deformations which require repairs . While repair operations and building downtime are expensive current fire design approaches do not consider post event resilience . The first step to enable predicting the resilience of RC structures under fire is to develop capabilities to model the damage of these structures after various fire exposures . This paper focuses on the prediction of the residual deformations of RC columns within a code designed five story RC frame building . Computational modeling approaches to capture the fire behavior of the columns are investigated . The models range from isolated columns with linear springs at the boundaries to full building model coupling beam and shell elements with intermediate approaches . The analyses highlight the critical nonlinear role of the thermal expansion contraction of the surrounding beams and slabs on the column deformations . Large transversal residual deformations develop particularly in perimeter columns combined with residual shortening . This invalidates models based on isolated column or 2D frame . A parametric study of the residual deformations of RC columns is then conducted with due consideration of the 3D restraints and interactions to investigate the effects of different design parameters and fire scenarios on the residual deformations after a fire event . The results of the parametric study indicate that fire load density and opening factor significantly influence the residual deformations of RC columns compared to the thermal conductivity of concrete and live loads . This research improves the understanding and provides recommendations for numerical modeling of the effect of fire on the residual capacity and deformations in RC structures .

@highlight Numerical modeling of the fire response of a code designed RC frame building.
@highlight Focus on post fire damage and deformations as they affect resilience and recovery.
@highlight Large residual deformations and loss of capacity are observed in the columns.
@highlight Thermal deformations of beams and slabs have large effects on the RC columns behavior.
@highlight Models of the structural system are needed to capture these thermal restraint effects.
