 Performance Based Seismic Design procedures require adequate estimation of the global cyclic forcedisplacement behaviors of the primary lateral load resisting elements . As reinforced concrete walls constitute one of the most widely used lateral load elements in building construction several nonlinear analytical modeling approaches have been developed over the past several decades to numerically simulate the hysteretic behavior of these structures . However comparisons between these models have often provided few details on the model input parameters have not used consistent model discretization and have assessed hysteretic predictions more qualitatively than quantitatively . Accordingly the objectives of this paper are to 1 provide detailed information on the modeling parameters used to simulate the cyclic lateral F D behavior of a set of planar RC walls with flexure dominant as well as shear dominant behaviors 2 evaluate the sensitivity of the F D curves to different wall model discretizations applied consistently between different models and 3 propose and use a new quantitative approach to assess the hysteretic behaviors predicted by the numerical models . The considered models are PERFORM 3D MVLEM SFI MVLEM and BTM . To represent the information that is typically known during the design of a structure the nonlinear modeling parameters were limited to the wall geometry reinforcing layout concrete compression strength and reinforcing steel yield strength with no calibration of the material behaviors to the reported test results . A total of 2 300 analyses were performed to simulate four slender and four squat previously tested RC walls . Results of the cyclic lateral F D predictions were evaluated based on commonly used measures of effective stiffness maximum strength and ultimate displacement . Additionally the hysteretic response of the numerical simulations was assessed by proposing validating and using the Modified Nash Sutcliffe Efficiency

@highlight The modeling parameters adequately simulate the cyclic behavior of RC walls.
@highlight F D curves of three models did not significantly change with the discretization.
@highlight The proposed
@highlight is a metric to evaluate hysteretic responses of numerical models.
