 This study aims to develop a novel monolithic like precast beam column connection for reinforced concrete structures . The proposed connection system has several advantages such as rapid assembly and disassembly reusability and replaceability if damaged during an earthquake event . An experimental investigation was first carried out to determine the seismic performance of the proposed connections . In total six full scale precast and monolithic T shape beam column connection specimens with different reinforcement ratios specimen dimensions and detailing were tested under displacement controlled cyclic loading while the axial load on the column was kept constant . The cyclic behaviour curvature distribution failure mode energy dissipation capacity and ductility of the specimens were obtained using the experimental outputs . Detailed non linear finite element models were then developed using ABAQUS . It is shown that the FE models can accurately predict the overall performance of the precast connections in terms of initial stiffness lateral load bearing capacity and post peak behaviour . The results indicate that in general the precast connections exhibited considerably higher ductility and ultimate drift ratio compared to similar monolithic connections . For the same drift ratio monolithic connections exhibited slightly higher energy dissipation capacity while the precast connections generally dissipated higher energy at their ultimate point . It is demonstrated that the monolithic like precast connections can satisfy the ACI 318 14 acceptance criteria while they also sustain the ASCE 41 17 Collapse Prevention limits . Therefore the proposed connection system is considered to be suitable for RC structures in seismic regions .

@highlight A novel monolithic like precast moment connection is developed for RC structures.
@highlight Six full scale precast and monolithic specimens were tested under cyclic loading.
@highlight Structural parameters were calculated for each specimen based on cyclic behavior.
@highlight Precast connections provided similar behaviour compared to monolithic counterparts.
@highlight Detailed FE models were developed to predict the structural behaviourof specimens.
