 Nowadays great attention has been arisen on steel plate composite walls but studies on SC wall to foundation connections were rarely reported . In this paper eight large scale specimens were designed and tested to investigate the in plane and out of plane behavior of SC wall to foundation connections subjected to combined axial compression and cyclic lateral force . Test parameters mainly included the loading direction construction detail of the connection and the aspect ratios or height to thickness ratios of SC walls . The effects of test parameters on SC wall to foundation connection performance were discussed . For test specimens subjected to in plane loading results showed that the specimens all failed by flexure . For specimens subjected to out of plane loading the specimens with the wall height to thickness ratio of 1.33 and 2.5 failed by shear and flexure splitting respectively . The lap splice connection could be regarded as an over strength connection since failure usually occurs on the connection while the embedding connection could be designed as a full strength connection where the SC wall itself fails according to AISC N690s1 15 . The lap splice connections had better ductility than embedding connections . The specimens with larger SC wall aspect ratios or height to thickness ratios had better ductility . The current expressions for the in plane and out of plane load carrying capacities of SC walls were evaluated based on the test results . The comparison showed that the current expressions generally underestimated the load carrying capacities of the specimens . Since both construction details of lap splice and embedding had been proven feasible for practical use in SC wall to foundation connections further studies on the design of both connection types were recommended .

@highlight Eight large scale SC wall to foundation connection specimens were tested.
@highlight The failure modes and hysteresis curves were reported.
@highlight The effects of construction detail and SC wall height were discussed.
@highlight The current expressions for the capacities of SC walls were evaluated.
