 3D printing is an efficient method of designing customised structures and producing synthetic bone grafts appropriate for bone implants . This research aimed to manufacture a new multi functionalised 3D printed poly carbonated hydroxyapatite scaffolds with mass proportions of 100 0 95 5 and 90 10 in a bid to verify their potential application in tissue regeneration . The filaments of these hybrid materials were obtained by extrusion technique and subsequently used to manufacture the 3D printed scaffolds using a fused deposition modelling technique . The scaffolds were characterised based on their thermal properties microstructure and geometry by differential scanning calorimetry scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy respectively in addition to determination of their apparent porosities . The degradation of the scaffolds and the liberation of degradation products were evaluated in in vitro for different days under simulated physiological conditions . New microanalyses of mechanical behaviour of the materials tensile and compression stresses density frequency analysis and optimisation with DSC were performed . While evaluation of the surface luminance structure and the profile structure of the nanostructured PLA composite materials was done by SEM in 3D printed form . The filter profile of cross sectional view of the specimen was extracted and evaluated with Firestone curve of the Gaussian filter checking the roughness and waviness profile of the structure . It was observed that the thermal properties of the composites were not affected by the manufacturing process . The microstructural analysis showed the effective incorporation of the ceramic filler in the polymer matrix as well as an acceptable PLA cHA interaction . The degradation tests showed the presence of calcium and phosphorus in the studied medium confirming their liberation from the composites during the incubation periods .

@highlight Imitation of biomaterial composites used for bone implants using gradual PLA cHA bio composites.
@highlight Investigation of mechanical chemical and physical properties of the biomaterials with three aggregates.
@highlight Microstructural analysis of roughness and morphology of PLA cHA scaffolds using computerized micro tomography technique.
@highlight Assessment of the hybrid scaffolds surface roughness evaluation mechanical and bioactivity analysis tests.
@highlight The compatibilised PLA cHA morphological blends exhibited high toughness than pure PLA.
