 Steel reinforced concrete composite members in which a steel shape is encased in a reinforced concrete section are widely used in high rise buildings in seismic prone areas and the accurate shear strength prediction of SRC shear critical members is still under investigation by researchers and code writers . The current code based design method is acceptable for determining the shear strength of SRC members because of the feasibility and simplification compared with other complicated calculation models . Nevertheless the code based design method is usually established on the basis of the strength superposition method indicating that the overall shear strength of a SRC member is obtained as the sum of the shear strength of the steel shape and that of the reinforced concrete . Although the strength superposition method is simple and feasible the shear strengths of these two parts usually can not reach the corresponding peak point at the same time which may lead to an unsafe result . This research presents a theoretical model for predicting the shear strengths of SRC deep beams and SRC short columns . In this model the concept of strength superposition is applied and the shear strength of the steel shape and that of the reinforced concrete part are calculated using comprehensive models and related according to the shear deformation . Finally the proposed model is compared with other calculation methods from codes Eurocode 4 AISC 360 JGJ 138 and YB 9082 using the available test data consisting of 63 SRC short columns and 57 SRC deep beams and it can be concluded that the proposed model is capable of calculating the shear strengths of SRC short columns and SRC deep beams with sufficient accuracy and safety .

@highlight An analytical model for predicting shear strengths of SRC members is proposed.
@highlight Shear deformation compatibility between steel and reinforced concrete is established.
@highlight Recommendations for practical design are proposed regarding this model.
