 To investigate the influence of longitudinal reinforcement strength grade stirrup spacing concrete strength and axial load ratio on seismic behavior of high strength concrete columns seven full scale square HSC columns reinforced with high strength steel bars with nominal yield strength of 600MPa or conventional steel bars were tested under constant axial load and cyclic lateral load . Furthermore corresponding nonlinear finite element analysis was conducted in ABAQUS . The column top deformation and lateral load at different service states stiffness degradation bearing capacity degradation and strain of longitudinal and transverse reinforcement were discussed . The test result shows that using steel bars with nominal yield strength of 400MPa as stirrup is a better choice for HSC columns and ALR is an important factor which determines whether the high strength longitudinal reinforcement can reach its compressive or tensile yield strain before maximum point . Taking HSSB as longitudinal reinforcement greatly improves the seismic behavior of HSC columns . After taking the influence of strain gradient on stress strain relationship of compressive concrete into consideration a confined strain gradient model which was suitable for finite element analysis was established based on the model established by Razvi and Saatcioglu . Specific verification of finite element model on deformation and lateral load at different service states were presented for further parameter analysis . The trend of displacement ductility factor were investigated in detail in numerical analysis part . With proper ALR and stirrup characteristic value HSC columns reinforced with HSSB is able to present a displacement ductility of higher than 4 which is capable to meet the ductility demand of most codes .

@highlight The seismic behavior of concrete slender columns was investigated.
@highlight The main parameters include stirrup space concrete strength and axial load ratio.
@highlight The yield maximum and failure points obtained from ABAQUS analysis were shown.
@highlight Parameter analysis on deformation and load at different service states was conducted.
