 A new approach to seismic resistant design of structures and mitigation of structural torsion is introduced and investigated . It is based on the controlled adaptation of all the structural columns of a single storey to partially decouple the superstructure from the moving ground . In addition it allows to maintain adequate vertical rigidity together with adding notable horizontal flexibility reduces storey drift provides a resistance to lateral loads and to minor vibration generates a self restoring mechanism incorporates a self stopping mechanism besides ensuring the structural stability under extremely severe earthquakes . The new approach is not intended to form any plastic hinges or rely on them to provide damping therefore supplementary damping is provided using a new displacement based bracing system designed by the author . A set of multi storey asymmetric structures of 6 to 16 storey are considered to numerically assess the proposals efficiency under near fault and long period earthworks . Using nonlinear time history analysis the 3D structures are examined under unidirectional ground motions applied along the most unfavourable horizontal direction to produce the worst torsional responses that are to be mitigated using the new approach . It was found that the new approach has reduced significantly the structural responses including torsion . The base storey was found the optimum level for applying the new approach to ensure the highest efficiency . Furthermore it was found that the proposed approach provides all the advantages of seismic isolation plus an additional benefit that is the new proposal is suitable for both short and long period structures . Simultaneously the new proposal provides all the good characteristics of supplemental energy dissipation plus an extra function as it reduces inter story drift additionally .

@highlight New approach to seismic resistant design of structures is proposed and investigated.
@highlight The proposal provides the advantages of seismic isolation and energy dissipation.
@highlight The proposal is a new multi feature economic seismic resistant design approach.
@highlight It is applicable to short long period structures new existing constructions.
@highlight The proposal mitigated significantly the structural responses including torsion.
