 Polarimetric data is an additional source of information in PSI technique to improve its performance in land subsidence estimation . The combination of polarimetric data and radar interferometry can lead to an increase in coherence and the number of PS pixels . In this paper we evaluated and compared the dual polarized Sentinel 1A and TerraSAR X data to improve the PSInSAR algorithm . The improvement of this research is based on minimizing Amplitude Dispersion Index by finding the optimum scattering mechanism to increase the number of PSC and PS pixels . The proposed method was tested using a dataset of 40 dual pol SAR data acquired by S1A and 20 dual pol SAR data acquired by TSX . The results revealed that using the TSX data the number of PS pixels increased about 3 times in ESPO method than using the conventional channels e.g . HH and VV . This increase in S1A data was about 1.7 times in ESPO method . In addition we investigated the efficiency of the three polarimetric optimization methods i.e . ESPO BGSM and Best for the dual polarized S1A and TSX data . Results showed that the PS density increased about 1.9 times in BGSM and about 1.5 times in Best method in TSX data . However in S1A data PS density increased about 1.1 times in BGSM . The Best method was not successful in increasing the PS density using the S1A data . Also the effectiveness of the method was evaluated in urban and non urban regions . The experimental results showed that the method was successful in significantly increasing the number of final PS pixels in both regions .

@highlight Evaluating the polarimetric capabilities of dual polarized S1A and TSX data.
@highlight Improving the PS InSAR technique using the polarimetric optimization of ADI.
@highlight PolInSAR technique for estimation of ground deformation in Tehran Iran.
@highlight Investigating the physical interpretation of optimum scattering mechanisms.
@highlight Investigating the PSC and PS pixels density of optimum and conventional channels.
