 Artisanal and small scale gold mining operations have been conducted in Ghana for centuries . Over time technological advances in the industry occurred and miners separated from large scale mining and applied this knowledge to small scale or individual mining practices . In March 2017 the government responded to a media campaign against environmental degradation and placed a ban against water pollution this ban affected all informal gold mining operations because of the chronic use of mercury in gold extraction which contributes to water contamination . The unintended consequences of this ban were that approximately 1 million people lost their jobs . A qualitative study was conducted to understand how small scale gold mining affected female miners and in turn the implications of the ban on these women and their families . There were 21 illegal female miners interviewed in Akwatia Ghana . The results from this study confirmed that many female miners used their mining money to support their families . Because the ban blocked mining employment opportunities the women were forced into unreliable and low paying alternative jobs and were unable to pay for school fees and food . Unfortunately while the ban may have improved the environment it also contributed to adverse outcomes related to women and children s development like inadequate nutritional needs and school dropout rates thus bans like this need to be reconsidered and readapted to address these immeasurable consequences .

@highlight A military enforced ban on environmental degradation occurred in Ghana for almost two years.
@highlight This ban affected the informal industry of artisanal and small scale gold mining.
@highlight Women miners lost their jobs wherein money was used to pay for household items e.g. food and school fees.
@highlight Adverse psychosocial outcomes could occur as women and children suffered as a result of the ban in Ghana.
@highlight Bans on the environment need to consider indirect health and social effects in the future.
