 Vegetation maps are essential tools for the conservation and management of landscapes as they contain essential information for informing conservation decisions . Traditionally maps have been created using field based approaches which due to limitations in costs and time restrict the size of the area for which they can be created and frequency at which they can be updated . With the increasing availability of satellite sensors providing multi spectral imagery with high temporal frequency new methods for efficient and accurate vegetation mapping have been developed . The objective of this study was to investigate to what extent multi seasonal Sentinel 2 imagery can assist in mapping complex compositional classifications at fine spatial scales . We deliberately chose a challenging case study namely a visually and structurally homogenous scrub vegetation of Western Australia . The classification scheme consists of 24 target classes and a random 60 40 split was used for model building and validation . We compared several multi temporal feature sets consisting of numerous combinations of spectral bands vegetation indices as well as principal component and tasselled cap transformations as input to four machine learning classifiers to separate target classes . The results show that a multi temporal feature set combining autumn and spring images sufficiently captured the phenological differences between the classes and produced the best results with SVM and NN classifiers returning statistically superior results compared to RF and CT . The SWIR spectral bands captured during spring the greenness indices captured during spring and the tasselled cap transformations derived from the autumn image emerged as most informative which suggests that ecological factors occurring at a sub pixel level likely had the biggest impact on class confusion . However despite these challenges the results are auspicious and suggest that seasonal Sentinel 2 imagery has the potential to predict compositional vegetation classes with high accuracy . Further work is needed to determine whether these results are replicable in other vegetation types and regions .

@highlight Sentinel 2 imagery is effective at classifying compositional vegetation patterns.
@highlight Compositional patterns are finer than land use land cover structures.
@highlight Multi season Autumn Spring feature set returns highest accuracy.
@highlight Highest overall accuracy from SVM 74 and NN 72 classifiers.
@highlight Sub pixel ecological factors likely driving confusion.
