 The role of natural resources in promoting economic and financial activities is important for attaining country s economic growth . The study used different natural resource rents domestic investment trade openness per capita income and their resulting impact on financial development in order to assess financial resource curse hypothesis in Pakistan by using a consistent time series data from 1975 to 2017 . The study employed ARDL Bounds testing approach that is fairly worked under different order of integrated variables and displayed short and long run parameter estimates . Further the study used VAR decomposition analysis to generate Impulse Response Function and Variance Decomposition Analysis to assessed forecasted variance and error shocks over a next 10 year time period . The results show that in the short run initial level of forest rents and oil rents supported the natural resource abundance hypothesis as both the rents substantially increases country s financial development however in the long run there is a negative relationship of coal rents forest rents natural gas rents and oil rents with domestic credit to private sector which confirmed the natural curse hypothesis in a country . The domestic investment in the form of gross fixed capital formation largely supported the financial activities with all given resource rents in the models while country s per capita income unable to signify its positive impact on DCPS under the resource curse environment during the study time period . The other results show that coal rents and oil rents decreases broad money supply whereas natural gas rents decreases market capitalization to validate financial resource curse hypothesis in a country . The results of IRF and VDA approach confirmed the viability of both the competing natural resource theories under financial development in the next 10 year time period .

@highlight The study evaluated financial resource curse hypothesis in Pakistan.
@highlight Financial development is shown by domestic credit to private sector M2 and market capitalization.
@highlight Coal natural gas oil and forest rents are used as indicators of natural resource abundance in a country.
@highlight The study verified financial resource curse hypothesis in all of the four stated natural resource rents.
@highlight The domestic investment trade and continuing economic growth significantly affect country s financial development.
