 Chile is the largest copper producing country of the world and almost 50 of the copper it exports to the rest of the world is exported as copper concentrates to be smelted and refined abroad . However 70 of the weight of these exported copper concentrates is gangue . In this paper analyze and quantify the contribution Chile could make to the ongoing world efforts to reduce climate change and global warming if it adopts a trading policy eliminating its exports of copper concentrates and replacing them with the greater value added exports of the refined copper obtained from smelting and refining those concentrates in Chile . This policy would allow a significant reduction of greenhouse gases emitted every year to the global atmosphere . This reduction would occur through two channels 1. avoiding the combustion of more than 600 000 tons of diesel oil currently used to transport by sea almost 6 600 000 tons of the gangue incorporated in Chile s copper concentrate exports and 2. using Chile s cleaner technology for smelting and refining copper concentrates instead of the dirtier technologies of the countries currently importing smelting and refining the Chilean copper concentrates . For the first time using data for 2014 we estimate the total net reduction in GHG emissions to the global atmosphere that the proposed trade policy would imply . We calculate the distance of the nautical routes used for the 919 shipments of concentrates exported by Chile that year and we perform sensitivity analysis for 4 scenarios employing two alternative values for two key parameters . Additionally we compare the GHG emission performances of the copper smelting and refining metallurgic technologies employed in Chile and in every one of the 22 countries that import and smelt and refine Chilean concentrates . Our estimates for the 2 most extreme scenarios indicate that if instead of exporting copper concentrates in 2014 Chile would had exported only refined copper it would had contributed with a total net reduction of GHG emissions emitted to the global atmosphere of 2 227 047 and 2 799 279 ton CO2 eq tons that year which are equivalent to approximately 5.6 of the total amount of GHG emissions that would had made Chile fully carbon neutral that year . This is a significant contribution regarding Chile s commitment to the Paris Agreement as well as in terms of the required world efforts to reducing GHG emissions from sea shipping .

@highlight By replacing all its copper concentrate exports by refined copper exports Chile would reduce its GHG emissions.
@highlight The annual amount reduced of GHG emissions to the global atmosphere is around 2 500 000 tons of CO
@highlight  eq.
@highlight 71 of this reduction comes from the maritime transportation of the gangue content in Chile s copper concentrate exports.
@highlight 29 is due to Chiles less polluting refining technologies compared with countries importing Chiles copper concentrates.
@highlight The reduction represents 5.6 of the total GHG emission reduction that would make Chile fully carbon neutral.
