 Nighttime light remote sensing data have been widely used to derive socioeconomic indices at national and regional scales . However few studies analyzed the factors that may explain NTL variations at a fine scale due to the limited resolution of existing NTL data . As a new generation NTL satellite Luojia 1 01 provides NTL data with a finer spatial resolution of 130m and can be used to assess the relationship between NTL intensity and artificial surface features on an unprecedented scale . This study represents the first efforts to assess the relationship between Luojia 1 01 NTL intensity and artificial surface features at the parcel level in comparison to the Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite NTL data . Points of interest and land use land cover data were used in random forest regression models for both Luojia 1 01 and NPP VIIRS to analyze the feature contribution of artificial surface features to NTL intensity . The results show that luminosity variations in Luojia 1 01 data for different land use types were more significant than those in NPP VIIRS data because of the finer spatial resolution and wider measurement range . Seventeen variables extracted from POI and LULC data explained the Luojia 1 01 and NPP VIIRS NTL intensity with a good out of bag score of 0.62 and 0.76 respectively . Moreover Luojia 1 01 data had fewer blooming phenomena than NPP VIIRS data especially for cropland water body and rural area . Luojia 1 01 is more suitable for estimating socioeconomic activities and can attain more comprehensive information on human activities since the feature contribution of POI variables is more sensitive to NTL intensity in the Luojia 1 01 RF regression model than that in the NPP VIIRS RF regression model .

@highlight Parcel level artificial surface features were linked to Luojia 1 01 nighttime light NTL imagery.
@highlight NTL variations among artificial surface features in Shanghai were explained using NPP VIIRS data for comparison.
@highlight Luojia 1 01 had fewer blooming phenomena than NPP VIIRS data.
@highlight Luojia 1 01 is more suitable for estimating socioeconomic activities at a finer scale than NPP VIIRS data.
