 Land cover maps play an integral role in environmental management . However countries and institutes encounter many challenges with producing timely efficient and temporally harmonized updates to their land cover maps . To address these issues we present a modular Regional Land Cover Monitoring System architecture that is easily customized to create land cover products using primitive map layers . Primitive map layers are a suite of biophysical and end member maps with land cover primitives representing the raw information needed to make decisions in a dichotomous key for land cover classification . We present best practices to create and assemble primitives from optical satellite using computing technologies decision tree logic and Monte Carlo simulations to integrate their uncertainties . The concept is presented in the context of a regional land cover map based on a shared regional typology with 18 land cover classes agreed on by stakeholders from Cambodia Laos PDR Myanmar Thailand and Vietnam . We created annual map and uncertainty layers for the period 20002017 . We found an overall accuracy of 94 when taking uncertainties into account . RLCMS produces consistent time series products using free long term historical Landsat and MODIS data . The customizable architecture can include a variety of sensors and machine learning algorithms to create primitives and the best suited smoothing can be applied on a primitive level . The system is transferable to all regions around the globe because of its use of publicly available global data and easily adaptable architecture that allows for the incorporation of a customizable assembly logic to map different land cover typologies based on the user s landscape monitoring objectives

@highlight We present a modular system for land cover mapping using all best practices and technologies available.
@highlight Primitive map layers are a suite of biophysical and end member maps.
@highlight Land cover primitives represent raw information needed to make decisions in a dichotomous key for land cover typing.
@highlight A Monte Carlo simulation and decision tree logic for error quantification.
@highlight Countries and institutes can built their own decision logic from the building blocks primitives and create their own land cover map based on their own definitions and hierarchies.
