 The relationship between natural resource abundance and environmental degradation has important environmental implications . However this domain is insufficiently investigated and diverse findings are evident in the literature . The significant economic growth along with rapid urbanization and industrialization has increased the extraction and consumption of natural resources in China . Therefore this study investigates the effect of natural resources abundance human capital and urbanization on the ecological footprint in China controlling economic growth . The study uses the famous Bayer and Hack cointegration test and bootstrap causality technique to study cointegration and causal association among variables . The findings of the study confirm the long run equilibrium relationship among variables . The long run results reveal that natural resource rent increases the ecological footprint . Urbanization and economic growth contribute to environmental degradation whereas human capital mitigates environmental deterioration . Interestingly the interaction between urbanization and human capital helps in alleviating environmental degradation which indicates a moderating effect of human capital in promoting sustainable urbanization . The estimates of the bootstrap causality method disclose unidirectional causality from natural resources to the ecological footprint . Urbanization also Granger causes ecological footprint without any feedback . The results are also compared and verified using carbon footprint as an additional proxy for environmental degradation . Lastly comprehensive policy measures are proposed to improve environmental quality .

@highlight Analysed the impact of natural resources human capital and urbanization on the ecological footprint in China.
@highlight The Bayer Hanck cointegration test and bootstrap causality are employed.
@highlight Natural resources and urbanization increase the ecological footprint.
@highlight Human capital reduces environmental deterioration.
@highlight The interaction between urbanization and human capital decreases environmental degradation.
