 Satellite rainfall products for landslide early warning prediction have been spotlighted by several researchers in the last couple of decades . This study investigates the use of TRMM and ERA Interim data for the determination of rainfall thresholds and the prediction of precipitation respectively to be used for landslide early warning purposes at the Bogowonto catchment Central Java Indonesia . A landslide inventory of 218 landslides for the period of 20032016 was compiled and rainfall data were retrieved for the landslide locations as given by 6 ground stations TRMM and ERA Interim data . First rainfall data from the three different sources was compared in terms of correlation and extreme precipitation indices . Second a procedure for the calculation of rainfall thresholds for landslide occurrence was followed consisting of four steps i the TRMM based rainfall data was reconstructed for selected dates and locations characterized by landslide occurrence and non occurrence ii the antecedent daily rainfall was calculated for 3 5 10 15 20 and 30 days for the selected dates and locations iii two parameter daily rainfall antecedent rainfall thresholds were calculated for the aforementioned dates after analysis of the curves the optimum number of antecedent rainfall days was selected and empirical rainfall thresholds for landslide occurrence were determined . The procedure was repeated for the entire landslide dataset differentiating between forested and built up areas and between landslide occurrence in four temporal periods in relation to the monsoon . The results indicated that TRMM performs well for the detection of very heavy precipitation and can be used to indicate the extreme rainfall events that trigger landslides . On the contrary as ERA Interim failed to detect those events its applicability for LEWS remains limited . The 15 day antecedent rainfall was indicated to mostly affect the landslide occurrence in the area . The rainfall thresholds vary for forested and built up areas as well as for the beginning middle and end of the rainy season .

@highlight Landslide rainfall thresholds applicable for early warning system are derived using TRMM data.
@highlight Splitting rainfall thresholds according to seasonality increases their predictive power.
@highlight Satellite rainfall estimates perform poorly for detecting high intensity rainfall events.
