 Safety regulation is an important approach to urge coal mine enterprises to ensure safe production . The existing literature on the analysis of coal mine safety regulation through game methods focuses mainly on external supervision methods such as national and local governments and lacks research on coal enterprises internal supervision methods . Moreover these research focus on static analysis of the game between two stakeholders ignoring the dynamic process of the game . Therefore this paper explores the use of evolutionary game theory to describe the interactions between the stakeholders in China s coal enterprises internal safety inspection system which includes the coal mine owners the coal mine safety regulation departments and rank and file miners . Furthermore the multi player evolutionary game is simulated by using system dynamics to analyze the stability of stakeholder interactions and the impact of different reward and punishment strategies on the game process and equilibrium state under different scenarios . The simulation results are as follows . First under the static reward and punishment strategy increasing the reward and punishment intensity can quickly reduce their unsafe behavior ratio but at the same time increase the fluctuation in the game . Second under the dynamic reward and punishment strategy the stability of the game process is enhanced but it can not reach a satisfactory equilibrium value stable state . Last in order to make the game process with both high stability and high safety behavior ratio it is necessary to introduce external regulatory forces to act on the internal game system of coal mining enterprises under the dynamic reward and punishment strategy and at the same time the punishment intensity of regulation departments and miners should not be the same .

@highlight Multi player evolutionary game model was established analyzed and simulated.
@highlight The coal mine owner safety regulation department and miners strategy selections fluctuates repeatedly.
@highlight Increasing rewards and penalties can reduce the unsafe behavior quickly but make the evolution game system more unstable.
@highlight Put forward the strategy that can restrain the fluctuation of game and reach a satisfactory stable state.
