 Measuring and progressing toward international goals of curbing deforestation and improving livelihoods of people who depend on forests requires nuanced understanding of forests and the processes surrounding deforestation and degradation . Despite rapid improvements in Earth Observation technology monitoring of tropical forests remains hindered by persistent cloud cover heterogeneous landscapes long wet seasons and small and ephemeral clearings masked by rapid growth . A hybrid method is presented that combines elements of both time series and compositing approaches to best overcome these obstacles to map forest cover and change in the Republic of Panama based on Landsat imagery . The resulting Panama Vegetation Cover Time Series maps depict forest cover in Panama from 1990 to 2016 at 30 m resolution . Acknowledging the fuzzy boundary between forest and non forest classes these maps employ a hierarchical classification scheme that reflects the natural process of regeneration and can accommodate different definitions of forest and deforestation . Classification accuracy is 9798 between forest non forest categories and 7681 for deforestation events . The maps show a slight greening of Panama from 1990 to 2016 caused by expansion of young secondary growth . The annual rate of deforestation in mature forest has remained around 0.6 yr although young forests have matured at a similar rate such that there is no net loss of forest . While estimates of total forest cover are similar to official national estimates depending on forest definition there is little agreement in location of deforestation events .

@highlight Forest cover and forest cover change is mapped in Panama from 1990 to 2016.
@highlight A hybrid process captures small clearings despite clouds and rapid regrowth.
@highlight Ordinal classification allows different definitions of forest and degrees of fuzziness.
@highlight Primary deforestation continues at steady rate despite stable net forest cover.
@highlight Spatial heterogeneity and clouds are main error sources in forest change monitoring.
