 Accurate and timely information on the distribution of crop types is vital to agricultural management ecosystem services valuation and food security assessment . Synthetic Aperture Radar systems have become increasingly popular in the field of crop monitoring and classification . However the potential of time series polarimetric SAR data has not been explored extensively with several open scientific questions that need to be answered . In this research the usefulness of full year L band fully polarimetric Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle Synthetic Aperture Radar data in crop classification was fully investigated over an agricultural region with a heterogeneous distribution of crop categories . In total 11 crop classes including tree crops forage crops a spring crop and summer crops were discriminated using the Random Forest algorithm . The SAR input variables included raw linear polarization channels as well as polarimetric parameters derived from Cloude Pottier and Freeman Durden decompositions . Results showed clearly that the polarimetric parameters yielded much higher classification accuracies than linear polarizations . The combined use of all variables produced the maximum overall accuracy of 90.50 and 84.93 for 2011 and 2014 respectively with a significant increase of approximately 8 percentage points compared with linear polarizations alone . The variable importance provided by the RF illustrated that the polarimetric parameters had a far greater influence than linear polarizations with the CP parameters being much more important than the FD parameters . The most important acquisitions were the images dated during the peak biomass stage when the differences in structural characteristics between most crops were the largest . At the same time the images in spring and autumn also contributed to the crop classification since they respectively provided unique information for discriminating fruit crops as well as summer crops . As a result the combined use of only four acquisitions was adequate to achieve a nearly optimal overall accuracy . In light of the promising classification accuracies demonstrated in this research it becomes increasingly viable to provide accurate and up to date crops inventories over large areas based solely on multitemporal polarimetric SAR .

@highlight Overall accuracy of crop classification reaches 85 90 by using full year UAVSAR.
@highlight Polarimetric parameters contribute more than linear polarizations to crop mapping.
@highlight The CP parameters are much more important than the FD parameters for crop mapping.
@highlight The combined use of four acquisitions is adequate to achieve a nearly optimal accuracy.
