 Global sea level rise and local land subsidence might exacerbate the risk of flooding in coastal plains . Among other cities this is also the case for the high latitude city of St. Petersburg which has long been threatened by flood events . To protect the urban area from storm surges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1978 approved the construction of the 25 km long Flood Prevention Facility Complex which was completed in 2011 . The risk of flooding in the city area of St. Petersburg is amplified by the fact that large sections of the coastal area have been reclaimed from the sea . In this study we investigate the temporal evolution of the ground displacement in St. Petersburg . To this end we perform an extended analysis based on the application of a simplified version of the differential interferometric synthetic aperture radar technique known as the minimum acceleration approach . The MinA algorithm is a multi satellite multi track interferometric combination technique that allows working with multiple sets of SAR images . The method allowed generation of time series of two dimensional deformation of the terrain by processing two sequences of Sentinel 1A B SAR images acquired from 2016 to 2018 along the ascending and descending flight passes . The Small BAseline Subset algorithm was independently applied to the two sets of SAR data to generate the relevant Line Of Sight projected ground deformation time series . Subsequently the LOS projected deformation products were geocoded and jointly combined . The results indicate that the deformation in the city is predominantly vertical with a maximum subsidence rate of about 20 mm year corresponding to the newly sea reclaimed lands . Finally the error budget of the retrieved 2 D deformation time series has also been addressed .

@highlight The ground deformation of St. Petersburg was retrieved using InSAR analyses.
@highlight Ground deformation in the city center is mostly vertical.
@highlight The error budget of the 2 D deformation time series has been addressed.
@highlight The displacement of the Flood Prevention Facility Complex has been characterized.
