 Mining is a significant driver of deforestation . Not only do mines clear native forests for mineral extraction they also often establish new infrastructure which indirectly facilitates new access to land and further clearing . Forest loss and fragmentation have serious effects on biodiversity yet rarely are these cumulative impacts of mining studied at the regional scale . Here we examine potential impacts of mining in a biodiverse region of the Brazilian Amazon . The National Reserve of Copper and Associates is currently off limits to mining activities but was recently threatened with a move to permit mineral exploration . We analyzed historic forest loss and fragmentation within two mining regions neighboring Renca . We also investigated historic deforestation trajectories within Renca s protected areas to determine how well conserved these forests are against current threats . We found that mining and other infrastructure associated with mines caused significant forest loss and fragmentation within neighboring mining sectors and that Renca s protected areas are not currently immune to forest loss . Permitting new mines within and surrounding Renca will place additional pressure on its biodiversity . If mineral development is to proceed huge regulatory changes will be required to effectively manage negative impacts on forests and biodiversity . Environmental Impact Assessments for new mining projects must assess and mitigate the cumulative region wide effects on forests while existing protected areas must be strengthened to ensure they are not directly or indirectly compromised by mining activities .

@highlight Renca is a biodiverse mineral rich region currently off limits to mining.
@highlight Mining in regions neighboring Renca has caused extensive forest loss and fragmentation.
@highlight Permitting mining within Renca would likely yield similar consequences.
@highlight Renca s protected areas are also not currently immune to forest loss.
@highlight Strengthening environmental policies may mitigate some negative impacts.
