 Over the past decades several filters have been developed to derive a Digital Terrain Model from a Digital Surface Model by means of filtering out aboveground objects such as vegetation . In this filtering process however one of the major challenges remains to precisely distinguish sharp terrain features e.g . ridges agricultural terraces or other anthropogenic geomorphology such as open pit mines riverbanks or road ramps . Hence loss of elevation data around terrain edges is very common with existing algorithms . In terraced landscapes the preservation of precise geomorphology is of key importance in digital terrain analyses such as hydrologic and erosion modelling or automatic feature recognition and inventorying . In this work we propose a new filtering method called TERRA . The novelty of the algorithm lies within its usage of terrain aspect to guide the anisotropic filtering direction therefore maximising the preservation of terrain edges . We derived six DTMs from DSMs using UAV Structure from Motion photogrammetry laser altimetry and satellite sources . The results indicated a close agreement of DTMs filtered using the TERRA algorithm and reference DTMs while terrace risers were well preserved even under thick canopies of vines and trees . Compared to existing filtering approaches TERRA performed well in minimising Type I errors while Type II errors occurred locally where vegetation was covering the terrace edges . Given the promising filtering performance and supported by the minimal requirements of parameterisation and computation the TERRA algorithm could be a useful tool in DTM preparation for digital terrain analysis of agricultural terraces and similar hillslopes characterised by a complex mosaic of sharp terrain and non terrain features .

@highlight A novel DTM from DSM filter is proposed named TERRA.
@highlight TERRA aims at the preservation of complex features such as sharp terrain edges.
@highlight Performance of ground preservation was above average compared to existing methods.
@highlight Minimal parameterisation and computational requirements favour applicability.
@highlight Potential for sloping terrain e.g. terraces mining areas or riverbanks.
