 The decision over asset holding is traditionally premised on the double edge objective of returns maximization and risk minimization . While the class of assets held by a typical investor depends on his attitude towards risks an optimal investment portfolio requires a strategic combination of alternative assets . To this end our paper analyzes the role of crude oil prices in predicting stock returns in addition to the traditional factors particularly the returns on risk free assets as enunciated by the Capital Asset Pricing Model . We also consider the possibility of nonlinearities in the nexus between crude oil prices and stock returns of nine major oil and gas companies that are currently listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange over the period of January 2014 to November 2019 . Our results show significant in sample predictability of stock returns using crude oil prices thereby affirming our argument that oil price matters in the predictability of stock returns for some listed oil and gas firms in Nigeria . We also offer evidence for the role of asymmetries in the predictability of stock returns for the majority of the listed oil and gas companies in Nigeria . By implication the increasing exposure of the earnings vis vis the share prices of some major oil and gas companies to negative changes in global oil prices suggests the need for diversification of their scope of operations .

@highlight We differ from the existing literature by exploring the oil stock nexus through a firm level analysis of Nigeria s oil and gas sector.
@highlight In order to resolve any potential persistence endogeneity and ARCH effects in the predictors we adopt the estimation procedure of Lewellen 2004 and Westerlund and Narayan 2012 2015 .
@highlight Moreover we evaluate and compare the in sample and out of sample forecast performance of our unrestricted predictive models which are the oil price augmented CAPM and asymmetric oil based stock model with that of the benchmark restrictive models which are the traditional CAPM and symmetric oil based stock model using the RMSE and the Campbell and Thompson test statistic.
@highlight Our results show significant in sample predictability of stock returns using crude oil prices thereby supporting the view that oil price matters in the predictability of stock returns for some oil and gas firms in Nigeria.
@highlight We also offer evidence of the role of asymmetries in the predictability of stock returns of the majority of the listed oil and gas companies in Nigeria. This yields the conclusion that the direction of oil price movements that is positive and negative changes matters in the valuation of oil and gas stocks in Nigeria.
