 Sustainable production and consumption are important goals of sustainable development . This study examines the relationships between natural resources rents and financialisation in a global sample . Nine indices from the Financial Development Index database of the International Monetary Fund are examined in the links with total natural resources rents in a global sample of 86 economies over the period 20022017 . We find robust results by applying several econometric techniques for panel data . First a strong mutual Granger causality exists between two variables especially from financialisation to natural resources rents . Second overall financial development appears to increase the natural resources rents through the positive influence of financial market depth . Meanwhile financial institutions help reduce the natural resources rents especially financial access and financial efficiency . By contrast the increase in natural resources rents has positive effects on financial market depth but negative effects on financial institutions and overall induces financial development . Third evidence exists with regard to the long term cointegration between financialisation and natural resources rents . The influence of financialisation on natural resources rents and the influence of natural resources rents on financialisation are confirmed in the long run . Fourth the links between financialisation and natural resources rents are found to be dominant in low and middle income economies and weak in high income economies .

@highlight This study examines the nexus between financialisation and natural resources rents NRR in a global sample.
@highlight A strong mutual Granger causality and long run cointegration exist between two variables.
@highlight Financial market depth increases NRR while financial institutions reduce NRR.
@highlight NRR has positive effects on financial market depth but negative effects on financial institutions.
@highlight The links are dominant in low and middle income economies and weak in high income economies.
