 In this paper a dynamic modeling, simulation, control and energy management of photovoltaic water-pumping network system is presented. A fuzzy-logic controller has been proposed for a real-time control of the system. The controller generates the reference speeds needed for the pulse-width-modulation generator to control each DC/DC boost converter taking into account the water levels in three tanks and the instantaneous value of the solar radiation. The main objectives of the fuzzy-logic controller are the design of an adequate maximum power-point tracker to extract the maximum power, regulate the water in the three tanks and finally ensure the correct operation for all the conversion strings in order to optimize the quantity of pumped water. The system performance under different scenarios has been checked carrying out Matlab/Simulink simulations using a practical load-demand profile and real weather data and comparing them to another control algorithm. photovoltaic panel ideal factor normal operating cell temperature rated voltage short-circuit current temperature coefficient of ISC constant of proportionality between G and Iph photocurrent PVP output voltage optimal values V electronic charge Boltzmann’s constant cell temperature PVP shunt resistance optimal values of I reference of solar radiation temperature coefficient stator voltage stator current stator inductance rotor resistance mutual inductance mechanical speed of the machine electromagnetic torque reference speed of motor i level of tank I output flow of tank I DC link capacity band-gap energy maximum power rated current serial cells open circuit voltage parallel cells solar radiation PVP output current ideality factors cell-reverse-saturation current reverse-saturation current PV array-series resistance cell-reference temperature DC link voltage DC link capacity saturation current for Tr rotor voltage rotor current rotor inductance stator resistance coefficient of friction total inertia of the machine load torque duty cycle of DC inverter i input flow of pump i DC link voltage

@highlight A modeling and simulation of photovoltaic water-pumping network are affected.
@highlight An energy management and a control strategy of the system are presented.
@highlight A real time control of photovoltaic water-pumping network system is proposed.
@highlight The optimization of the pumped water and the tanks regulation were ensured.
@highlight An adequate maximum power-point tracker should be controlled.
