 Large screens have become more popular in recent years. Because of the increasing size of displays, the amount of information presented in the peripheral visual field has gained importance in many tasks on visual display units. Users of displays are often exposed to some change or difference in luminance in or between different areas of a display, which in turn may produce a phenomenon known as discomfort glare. Discomfort glare is likely to affect cognitive performance. The performance in the visual periphery is more susceptible to disturbances as is the case for the performance in the central visual field. This study explored the effects of discomfort glare on detecting and processing peripheral visual information in a complex visual task. The task consisted of comparing the orientation of arrows presented in the central visual field and at 18° in the periphery. The arrows were superimposed on a background video and presented by a projection system in virtual reality. 50% of the presentations were preceded by a mild glare scene with a luminance of 25cd/m2 flashed prior to the stimulus. Experimental results of 56 participants were analyzed using the theory of signal detection. A significant difference (two-tailed t-test p =0.01) in detectability of stimuli (d′glare =1.87; d′no glare =2.11; Δd′=0.24) was obtained when comparing the performance in the two situations of glare. Results show that discomfort glare impairs peripheral visual performance in attending stimuli in a virtual reality environment. We therefore propose to consider discomfort glare as a factor affecting performance in detecting peripheral visual information. Discomfort glare should be included as a quality criterion in rating visual information, as is done in present standards of displays and lighting.

@highlight Glare experiments are achievable for evaluating visual attention in display media.
@highlight Discomfort glare results in reduced visual performance in all ages.
@highlight Discomfort glare reduces performance in detecting peripheral information.
@highlight Discomfort glare, as a distracter, shares the resource for processing information.
@highlight To consider discomfort glare as a serious issue in a complex visual environment.
