 Retinal image registration is a necessary step in diagnosis and monitoring of Diabetes Retinopathy (DR), which is one of the leading causes of blindness. Long term diabetes affects the retinal blood vessels and capillaries eventually causing blindness. This progressive damage to retina and subsequent blindness can be prevented by periodic retinal screening. The extent of damage caused by DR can be assessed by comparing retinal images captured during periodic retinal screenings. During image acquisition at the time of periodic screenings translation, rotation and scale (TRS) are introduced in the retinal images. Therefore retinal image registration is an essential step in automated system for screening, diagnosis, treatment and evaluation of DR. This paper presents an algorithm for registration of retinal images using orthogonal moment invariants as features for determining the correspondence between the dominant points (vessel bifurcations) in the reference and test retinal images. As orthogonal moments are invariant to TRS; moment invariants features around a vessel bifurcation are unaltered due to TRS and can be used to determine the correspondence between reference and test retinal images. The vessel bifurcation points are located in segmented, thinned (mono pixel vessel width) retinal images and labeled in corresponding grayscale retinal images. The correspondence between vessel bifurcations in reference and test retinal image is established based on moment invariants features. Further the TRS in test retinal image with respect to reference retinal image is estimated using similarity transformation. The test retinal image is aligned with reference retinal image using the estimated registration parameters. The accuracy of registration is evaluated in terms of mean error and standard deviation of the labeled vessel bifurcation points in the aligned images. The experimentation is carried out on DRIVE database, STARE database, VARIA database and database provided by local government hospital in Pune, India. The experimental results exhibit effectiveness of the proposed algorithm for registration of retinal images.

@highlight This paper presents an algorithm for registration of retinal images using orthogonal moment invariants as features.
@highlight As orthogonal moments are invariant to translation, rotation and scale (TRS); moment invariants features around a vessel bifurcation are unaltered due to TRS and are used to determine the correspondence between reference and test retinal images.
@highlight The TRS in test retinal image with respect to reference retinal image is estimated using Similarity transformation.
@highlight The test retinal image is aligned with reference retinal image using the estimated registration parameters.
@highlight The experimentation is carried out on 4 databases as DRIVE, STARE, VARIA and database provided by local government hospital.
