 There are various medical image sharing and electronic whiteboard systems available for diagnosis and discussion purposes. However, most of these systems ask clients to install special software tools or web plug-ins to support whiteboard discussion, special medical image format, and customized decoding algorithm of data transmission of HRIs (high-resolution images). This limits the accessibility of the software running on different devices and operating systems. In this paper, we propose a solution based on pure web pages for medical HRIs lossless sharing and e-whiteboard discussion, and have set up a medical HRI sharing and e-whiteboard system, which has four-layered design:  HRIs access layer: we improved an tile-pyramid model named unbalanced ratio pyramid structure (URPS), to rapidly share lossless HRIs and to adapt to the reading habits of users;  format conversion layer: we designed a format conversion engine (FCE) on server side to real time convert and cache DICOM tiles which clients requesting with window-level parameters, to make browsers compatible and keep response efficiency to server-client;  business logic layer: we built a XML behavior relationship storage structure to store and share users’ behavior, to keep real time co-browsing and discussion between clients;  web-user-interface layer: AJAX technology and Raphael toolkit were used to combine HTML and JavaScript to build client RIA (rich Internet application), to meet clients’ desktop-like interaction on any pure webpage. This system can be used to quickly browse lossless HRIs, and support discussing and co-browsing smoothly on any web browser in a diversified network environment. The proposal methods can provide a way to share HRIs safely, and may be used in the field of regional health, telemedicine and remote education at a low cost.

@highlight Designed methods for medical HRIs rapid accessing, presentation, and discussion on pure web browsers.
@highlight Improved a tile-pyramid to adapt to the reading habits of users for HRIs accessing.
@highlight Built a format conversion engine (FCE) to make DICOM browsing compatibility and response efficiency.
@highlight Designed a XML behavior relationship to store and share users’ behavior to keep online discussion.
@highlight Created a HRIs sharing and electronic whiteboard system in a diversified network environment.
