 Background and Objective The HIV/AIDS-related issue has given rise to a priority concern in which potential new therapies are increasingly highlighted to lessen the negative impact of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) in the healthcare industry. With the motivation of “medical applications,” this study focuses on the main advanced feature selection techniques and classification approaches that reflect a new architecture, and a trial to build a hybrid model for interested parties. Methods This study first uses an integrated linear–nonlinear feature selection technique to identify the determinants influencing HAART medication and utilizes organizations of different condition-attributes to generate a hybrid model based on a rough set classifier to study evolving HIV/AIDS research in order to improve classification performance. Results The proposed model makes use of a real data set from Taiwan's specialist medical center. The experimental results show that the proposed model yields a satisfactory result that is superior to the listed methods, and the core condition-attributes PVL, CD4, Code, Age, Year, PLT, and Sex were identified in the HIV/AIDS data set. In addition, the decision rule set created can be referenced as a knowledge-based healthcare service system as the best of evidence-based practices in the workflow of current clinical diagnosis. Conclusions This study highlights the importance of these key factors and provides the rationale that the proposed model is an effective alternative to analyzing sustained HAART medication in follow-up studies of HIV/AIDS treatment in practice.

@highlight To develop an integrated linear–nonlinear feature selection technique to identify the determinants of sustained HAART.
@highlight To generate a hybrid model based on rough set classifiers to verify its performance.
@highlight To create a relevant decision rule set of an LEM2 algorithm for specialist physicians as a diagnosis reference.
@highlight To effectively offer the study findings and results from the given data set to relevant medical institutions and patients.
