 Background modeling is widely used in visual surveillance systems aiming to facilitate analysis of real-world video scenes. The goal is to discriminate between pixels from foreground objects and those ones from the background. However, real-world scenarios tend to have time and spatial non-stationary variations, being difficult to reveal the foreground and background entities from video data. Here, we propose a novel adaptive background modeling, termed Object-based Selective Updating with Correntropy (OSUC), to support video-based surveillance systems. Our approach that is developed within an adaptive learning framework unveils existing spatio-temporal pixel relationships, making use of a single Gaussian for the model representation stage. Moreover, we introduce a background updating scheme composed of an updating rule that is based on the stochastic gradient algorithm and Correntropy cost function. As a result, this scheme can extract the temporal statistical pixel distribution, at the same time, dealing with non-stationary pixel value fluctuations that affect the background model. Here, an automatic tuning strategy of the cost function bandwidth parameter is carried out that can handle both Gaussian and non-Gaussian noise environments. Besides, to include pixel spatial relationships in the background modeling processing, we introduce an object-based selective learning rate strategy for enhancing the background modeling accuracy. Particularly, an object motion analysis stage is presented to detect and track foreground entities based on pixel intensities and motion direction attained via optical flow computation. Testing is provided on well-known datasets for discriminating between foreground and background that include stationary and non-stationary behaviors. Achieved results show that the OSUC outperforms, in most of the considered cases, the-state-of-the-art approaches with an affordable computational cost. Therefore, the proposed approach is suitable for supporting real-world video-based surveillance systems.

@highlight We propose a background modeling method to deal with non-stationary conditions.
@highlight The object-based updating strategy allows to work with SFO and RFO.
@highlight Non-Gaussian pixel dynamics are modeled using a Correntropy cost function.
@highlight Analyzing the regions movement direction avoids tracking background objects.
@highlight Object-based updating strategies improve the performance for indoor scenarios.
