 The Linear Ordering Problem is a popular combinatorial optimisation problem which has been extensively addressed in the literature. However, in spite of its popularity, little is known about the characteristics of this problem. This paper studies a procedure to extract static information from an instance of the problem, and proposes a method to incorporate the obtained knowledge in order to improve the performance of local search-based algorithms. The procedure introduced identifies the positions where the indexes cannot generate local optima for the insert neighbourhood, and thus global optima solutions. This information is then used to propose a restricted insert neighbourhood that discards the insert operations which move indexes to positions where optimal solutions are not generated. In order to measure the efficiency of the proposed restricted insert neighbourhood system, two state-of-the-art algorithms for the LOP that include local search procedures have been modified. Conducted experiments confirm that the restricted versions of the algorithms outperform the classical designs systematically when a maximum number of function evaluations is considered as the stopping criterion. The statistical test included in the experimentation reports significant differences in all the cases, which validates the efficiency of our proposal. Moreover, additional experiments comparing the execution times reveal that the restricted approaches are faster than their counterparts for most of the instances.

@highlight We study the linear ordering problem and we propose a method to improve the state-of-the-art algorithms.
@highlight We introduce an algorithm that identifies positions at which indexes within a solution cannot generate local optimum solutions.
@highlight We propose a modified version of the insert neighbourhood which discards the operations that lead indexes to these restricted positions.
@highlight We propose a modified version of the insert neighbourhood which discards the operations that lead indexes to these restricted positions.
@highlight Experimental study clearly confirms the advantage of using our neighbourhood in the state-of-the-art algorithms, instead of the classical neighbourhood.
