 One of the aims of Assistive Technologies is to help people with disabilities to communicate with others and to provide means of access to information. As an aid to Deaf people, we present in this work a production-quality rule-based machine system for translating from Spanish to Spanish Sign Language (LSE) glosses, which is a necessary precursor to building a full machine translation system that eventually produces animation output. The system implements a transfer-based architecture from the syntactic functions of dependency analyses. A sketch of LSE is also presented. Several topics regarding translation to sign languages are addressed: the lexical gap, the bootstrapping of a bilingual lexicon, the generation of word order for topic-oriented languages, and the treatment of classifier predicates and classifier names. The system has been evaluated with an open-domain testbed, reporting a 0.30 BLEU (BiLingual Evaluation Understudy) and 42% TER (Translation Error Rate). These results show consistent improvements over a statistical machine translation baseline, and some improvements over the same system preserving the word order in the source sentence. Finally, the linguistic analysis of errors has identified some differences due to a certain degree of structural variation in LSE.

@highlight Rule-based approach for a Spanish-to-LSE machine translation system for wide-domain application.
@highlight The proposed approach is based on the transfer at the level of syntatic functions from dependency analysis and employs three different stages: analysis, transfer and generation.
@highlight Morpho-lexical and lexical-semantic relationships are used in to expand the bilingual Spanish-LSE lexicon aiming at reducing the lexical gap between Spanish and LSE.
@highlight The rule-based approach also integrates classifier predicate generation.
@highlight Results present a 0.30 BLEU and 42% TER. Includes experiments and comparison with data-driven approaches, experiments with surface order, and linguistic-oriented error analysis.
