 Introduction Patients surviving myocardial infarction (MI) can be divided into high and low arrhythmic risk groups. Distinguishing between these two groups is of crucial importance since the high-risk group has been shown to benefit from implantable cardioverter defibrillator insertion; a costly surgical procedure with potential complications and no proven advantages for the low-risk group. Currently, markers such as left ventricular ejection fraction and myocardial scar size are used to evaluate arrhythmic risk. Methods In this paper, we propose quantitative discriminative features extracted from late gadolinium enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance images of post-MI patients, to distinguish between 20 high-risk and 34 low-risk patients. These features include size, location, and textural information concerning the scarred myocardium. To evaluate the discriminative power of the proposed features, we used several built-in classification schemes from matrix laboratory (MATLAB) and Waikato environment for knowledge analysis (WEKA) software, including k-nearest neighbor (k-NN), support vector machine (SVM), decision tree, and random forest. Results In Experiment 1, the leave-one-out cross-validation scheme is implemented in MATLAB to classify high- and low-risk groups with a classification accuracy of 94.44%, and an AUC of 0.965 for a feature combination that captures size, location and heterogeneity of the scar. In Experiment 2 with the help of WEKA, nested cross-validation is performed with k-NN, SVM, adjusting decision tree and random forest classifiers to differentiate high-risk and low-risk patients. SVM classifier provided average accuracy of 92.6%, and AUC of 0.921 for a feature combination capturing location and heterogeneity of the scar. Experiment 1 and Experiment 2 show that textural features from the scar are important for classification and that localization features provide an additional benefit. Conclusion These promising results suggest that the discriminative features introduced in this paper can be used by medical professionals, or in automatic decision support systems, along with the recognized risk markers, to improve arrhythmic risk stratification in post-MI patients.

@highlight Cardiac magnetic resonance image-based features were used to distinguish post-myocardial infarction patients into high and low arrhythmic risk groups.
@highlight Seventeen features describing the size, location and texture of the scarred myocardium were used in different classifiers.
@highlight In Experiment 1, a systematic testing of features and their combinations was done.
@highlight SMOTE, wrapper based feature selection, and nested cross-validation were used in Experiment 2.
@highlight Experiments 1 and 2 gave an accuracy of 94.4% (AUC=0.965) and 92.6% (AUC=0.921), respectively.
