 How to improve the global search ability without significantly impairing the convergence speed is still a big challenge for most of the meta-heuristic optimization algorithms. In this paper, a concept for the optimization of continuous nonlinear functions applying crisscross optimization algorithm is introduced. The crisscross optimization algorithm is a new search algorithm inspired by Confucian doctrine of gold mean and the crossover operation in genetic algorithm, which has distinct advantages in solution accuracy as well as convergence rate compared to other complex optimization algorithms. The procedures and related concepts of the proposed algorithm are presented. On this basis, we discuss the behavior of the main search operators such as horizontal crossover and vertical crossover. It is just because of the perfect combination of both, leading to a magical effect on improving the convergence speed and solution accuracy when addressing complex optimization problems. Twelve benchmark functions, including unimodal, multimodal, shifted and rotated functions, are used to test the feasibility and efficiency of the proposed algorithm. The experimental results show that the crisscross optimization algorithm has an excellent performance on most of the test functions, compared to other heuristic algorithms. At the end, the crisscross optimization algorithm is successfully applied to the optimization of a large-scale economic dispatch problem in electric power system. It is concluded that the crisscross optimization algorithm is not only robust in solving continuous nonlinear functions, but also suitable for addressing the complex real-world engineering optimization problems.

@highlight This paper introduces a new optimization algorithm called crisscross optimization algorithm (CSO).
@highlight The horizontal crossover searches the offspring within a half population of hypercubes.
@highlight The vertical crossover is able to accelerate the stagnant dimensions of population to jump out of local optima.
@highlight The integration of the dual search mechanisms gifts the CSO algorithm with powerful global search ability.
