 Human action recognition is an important and challenging task due to intra-class variation and complexity of actions which is caused by diverse style and duration in performed action. Previous works mostly concentrate on either depth or RGB data to build an understanding about the shape and movement cues in videos but fail to simultaneously utilize rich information in both channels. In this paper we study the problem of RGB-D action recognition from both RGB and depth sequences using kernel descriptors. Kernel descriptors provide an unified and elegant framework to turn pixel-level attributes into descriptive information about the performed actions in video. We show how using simple kernel descriptors over pixel attributes in video sequences achieves a great success compared to the state-of-the-art complex methods. Following the success of kernel descriptors  on object recognition task, we put forward the claim that using 3D kernel descriptors could be an effective way to project the low-level features on 3D patches into a powerful structure which can effectively describe the scene. We build our system upon the 3D Gradient kernel descriptor and construct a hierarchical framework by employing efficient match kernel (EMK)  and hierarchical kernel descriptors (HKD) as higher levels to abstract the mid-level features for classification. Through extensive experiments we demonstrate the proposed approach achieves superior performance on four standard RGB-D sequences benchmarks.

@highlight We propose a hierarchical kernel based method to learn the non-linear correlations between RGB and depth action data for action recognition.
@highlight We employ the efficient match kernels (EMK) in our framework, which allows us to learn nonlinear correlations between body parts.
@highlight We also apply hierarchical kernel descriptors (HKD) as higher level of our framework to aggregate patch-level features into one representative feature vector for each video.
@highlight Through extensive experiments we demonstrate the proposed approach achieves superior performance on four standard RGB-D sequences benchmarks.
