 Disassembly Sequence Planning (DSP) is a challenging NP-hard combinatorial optimization problem. As a new and promising population-based evolutional algorithm, the Teaching–Learning-Based Optimization (TLBO) algorithm has been successfully applied to various research problems. However, TLBO is not capable or effective in DSP optimization problems with discrete solution spaces and complex disassembly precedence constraints. This paper presents a Simplified Teaching–Learning-Based Optimization (STLBO) algorithm for solving DSP problems effectively. The STLBO algorithm inherits the main idea of the teaching–learning-based evolutionary mechanism from the TLBO algorithm, while the realization method for the evolutionary mechanism and the adaptation methods for the algorithm parameters are different. Three new operators are developed and incorporated in the STLBO algorithm to ensure its applicability to DSP problems with complex disassembly precedence constraints: i.e., a Feasible Solution Generator (FSG) used to generate a feasible disassembly sequence, a Teaching Phase Operator (TPO) and a Learning Phase Operator (LPO) used to learn and evolve the solutions towards better ones by applying the method of precedence preservation crossover operation. Numerical experiments with case studies on waste product disassembly planning have been carried out to demonstrate the effectiveness of the designed operators and the results exhibited that the developed algorithm performs better than other relevant algorithms under a set of public benchmarks. Ant Colony Optimization Average Running Time Bill of Materials Disassembly Sequence Planning Feasible Solution Generator Genetic Algorithm Greedy Randomized Adaptive Search Procedure Learning Phase Operator Particle Swarm Optimization Rate of Best Simplified Swarm Optimization Standard Deviation Simplified Teaching-Leaning-Based Optimization Teaching-Leaning-Based Optimization Teaching Phase Operator

@highlight We studied two kinds of disassembly sequence planning problems.
@highlight A Simplified Teaching–Learning-Based Optimization algorithm for these problems is proposed.
@highlight Three new operators are designed: feasible solution generator, teaching phase operator and learning phase operator.
@highlight All the algorithm parameters except population size and iteration times are self-adapted and need not to be tuned.
@highlight The good performance of the proposed algorithm is proved by experimental studies and benchmark test.
