 Apoptosis is a strictly organized course which keeps the healthy survival/death equilibrium. Disregulation in apoptosis may lead autoimmunity or cancer, but increased apoptosis can lead degenerative diseases. Studies during the last several years have identified numerous affected miRNAs in association with apoptosis, their target genes and biological functions, and possible drug interventions. Polymorphisms in miRNA genes or miRNA target sites (miRSNPs) can modify miRNA action. While polymorphisms in miRNA genes are relatively rare, SNPs in miRNA-binding sites in target genes are more frequent. Several studies have shown that SNPs in miRNA target sites enhance or weaken the interaction between miRNA and its target transcripts and are associated with cancers and other diseases. We aimed to identify miRSNPs on executioner caspase, CASP3 gene (caspase-3) and SNPs in miRNA genes targeting 3′UTR of CASP3 and assessing the impact of these miRSNPs and SNPs of miRNA genes targeting 3′UTR of CASP3 with respect to apoptosis. We identified 89 different miRNA binding sites (for 43 different miRNAs) and 16 different SNPs in binding sites of miRNA in the 3′UTR of the CASP3 gene. Also, 2 SNPs  were found on this miRNA′ genomic sequence. One of them crossmatched with a SNP in the 3′UTR of CASP3 that we found formerly. This miRNA was miR-4802-3p. Besides, miR-4802-3p targets three other apoptosis related genes, XIAP, IL1A and SOX2. This means that miR-4802-3p may also have a critical effect on apoptosis via different pathways other than caspase-3. We can therefore conclude that this is the first study proving a strong association between miR-4802-3p and apoptosis upon computational targetting analysis.

@highlight We identified miRSNPs in the CASP3 gene and SNPs in miRNAs genes targeting 3′UTR of CASP3.
@highlight We assessed the impact of these miRSNPs and SNPs of miRNA genes with respect to apoptosis. We found 89 different miRNA binding sites for 43 different miRNAs and 16 different SNPs in binding sites.
@highlight MiR-4802-3p’s binding site has a SNP on CASP3 3′UTR and its genomic sequence has a SNP at the same nucleotide.
@highlight We report a strong association between miR-4802-3p and apoptosis upon computational targetting analysis.
