 The collaborative design of a complicated mechanical product often involves conflicting multidisciplinary objectives, thus one key problem is conflict resolution and coordination among the different disciplines. Since the characteristics such as cooperative competition, professional dependence, compromise, overall utility and so on exist in multidisciplinary collaborative design (MCD), an effective way to gradually eliminate the conflicts among the multiple disciplines and reach an agreement is the negotiation by which a compromise solution that satisfies all parties is got. By comprehensively analyzing the characteristics in MCD and considering the benefit equilibrium among discipline individuals and team, a negotiation strategy is presented, which maximize the union satisfaction degree of system overall objective under the premise of ensuring the higher satisfaction degree level of each discipline’s local objective. A design action of a discipline is abstractly expressed as a concession in the negotiation strategy, and a negotiation model used for MCD is generated by establishing the relation between concession and satisfaction degree. By the relation between satisfaction degree and objective function, the mapping relationship between satisfaction degree domain and physical domain is built to get the design solution. A negotiation process is planned, and a negotiation system framework is designed to support the negotiation among multiple disciplines and assist the different disciplines rapidly reach a consistent compromise solution. A design example of automotive friction clutch is given to illustrate the proposed method. union satisfaction degree of multiple disciplines on design problem P satisfaction degree of discipline i on design problem P strategy power exponent concession weighting factor assigned to discipline i the threshold which means the accepted satisfaction degree of discipline i the optimal solution the worst solution intersection of design solutions of all disciplines negotiation termination condition volume of the clutch (mm3) unit friction power (W/mm2) intensity of pressure on friction surface (N/mm2) the biggest torque (Nm) maximum power (kW) total pressure (kN) reserve coefficient, 1.5 number of friction plate outer diameter of friction plate (mm) ratio of inner radius to outer radius minimum clearance (mm) thickness of friction plate (mm) coefficient of kinetic friction allowable intensity of pressure on friction surface (N/mm2) allowable unit friction power (W/mm2) allowable stress (MPa) rotate speed of friction plate (r/min)

@highlight Based on the in-depth analysis of negotiation characteristics in MCD, a novel negotiation method for MCD is proposed.
@highlight An effective negotiation strategy to resolve the conflicts among multiple disciplines is given.
@highlight A new negotiation model is given by introducing concepts of concession, satisfaction degree and strategy power exponent.
@highlight Two types of satisfaction degree functions and the mapping method among multiple domains are given.
@highlight Negotiation process and system framework are designed to assist multiple disciplines rapidly reach a compromise solution.
