 Clinical risk prediction – the estimation of the likelihood an individual is at risk of a disease – is a coveted and exigent clinical task, and a cornerstone to the recommendation of life saving management strategies. This is especially important for individuals at risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) given the fact that it is the leading causes of death in many developed counties. To this end, we introduce a novel learning algorithm – a key factor that influences the performance of machine learning-based prediction models – and utilities it to develop CVD risk prediction tool. This novel neural-inspired algorithm, called the Artificial Neural Cell System for classification (ANCSc), is inspired by mechanisms that develop the brain and empowering it with capabilities such as information processing/storage and recall, decision making and initiating actions on external environment. Specifically, we exploit on 3 natural neural mechanisms responsible for developing and enriching the brain – namely neurogenesis, neuroplasticity via nurturing and apoptosis – when implementing ANCSc algorithm. Benchmark testing was conducted using the Honolulu Heart Program (HHP) dataset and results are juxtaposed with 2 other algorithms – i.e. Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Evolutionary Data-Conscious Artificial Immune Recognition System (EDC-AIRS). Empirical experiments indicate that ANCSc algorithm (statistically) outperforms both SVM and EDC-AIRS algorithms. Key clinical markers identified by ANCSc algorithm include risk factors related to diet/lifestyle, pulmonary function, personal/family/medical history, blood data, blood pressure, and electrocardiography. These clinical markers, in general, are also found to be clinically significant – providing a promising avenue for identifying potential cardiovascular risk factors to be evaluated in clinical trials.

@highlight A novel neural-inspired algorithm called Artificial Neural Cell System for classification (ANCSc) was developed.
@highlight ANCSc algorithm is inspired by neural mechanisms like neurogenesis, neuroplasticity and apoptosis.
@highlight Performance of ANCSc, when applied to a clinical risk prediction task, was juxtaposed with SVM and EDC-AIRS algorithms.
@highlight ANCSc algorithm (statistically) outperforms both SVM and EDC-AIRS algorithms on this clinical prediction task.
@highlight Key biomarkers identified by ANCSc algorithm are also found to be clinically significant.
