 Named entities in the biomedical domain are often written using a Noun Phrase (NP) along with a coordinating conjunction such as ‘and’ and ‘or’. In addition, repeated words among named entity mentions are frequently omitted. It is often difficult to identify named entities. Although various Named Entity Recognition (NER) methods have tried to solve this problem, these methods can only deal with relatively simple elliptical patterns in coordinated NPs. We propose a new NER method for identifying non-elliptical entity mentions with simple or complex ellipses using linguistic rules and an entity mention dictionary. The GENIA and CRAFT corpora were used to evaluate the performance of the proposed system. The GENIA corpus was used to evaluate the performance of the system according to the quality of the dictionary. The GENIA corpus comprises 3434 non-elliptical entity mentions in 1585 coordinated NPs with ellipses. The system achieves 92.11% precision, 95.20% recall, and 93.63% F-score in identification of non-elliptical entity mentions in coordinated NPs. The accuracy of the system in resolving simple and complex ellipses is 94.54% and 91.95%, respectively. The CRAFT corpus was used to evaluate the performance of the system under realistic conditions. The system achieved 78.47% precision, 67.10% recall, and 72.34% F-score in coordinated NPs. The performance evaluations of the system show that it efficiently solves the problem caused by ellipses, and improves NER performance. The algorithm is implemented in PHP and the code can be downloaded from /.

@highlight Our NER method resolves simple and complex ellipses in coordinated NPs.
@highlight We presented two formal notations to express syntactic relationships between words.
@highlight We model the process of making non-elliptical entity mentions into a coordinated NP.
@highlight We model the process of finding non-elliptical entity mentions from a coordinated NP.
@highlight We optimize our NER method using Apriori algorithm.
