 Automatic recognition of clinical entities in the narrative text of health records is useful for constructing applications for documentation of patient care, as well as for secondary usage in the form of medical knowledge extraction. There are a number of named entity recognition studies on English clinical text, but less work has been carried out on clinical text in other languages. This study was performed on Swedish health records, and focused on four entities that are highly relevant for constructing a patient overview and for medical hypothesis generation, namely the entities: Disorder, Finding, Pharmaceutical Drug and Body Structure. The study had two aims: to explore how well named entity recognition methods previously applied to English clinical text perform on similar texts written in Swedish; and to evaluate whether it is meaningful to divide the more general category Medical Problem, which has been used in a number of previous studies, into the two more granular entities, Disorder and Finding. Clinical notes from a Swedish internal medicine emergency unit were annotated for the four selected entity categories, and the inter-annotator agreement between two pairs of annotators was measured, resulting in an average F-score of 0.79 for Disorder, 0.66 for Finding, 0.90 for Pharmaceutical Drug and 0.80 for Body Structure. A subset of the developed corpus was thereafter used for finding suitable features for training a conditional random fields model. Finally, a new model was trained on this subset, using the best features and settings, and its ability to generalise to held-out data was evaluated. This final model obtained an F-score of 0.81 for Disorder, 0.69 for Finding, 0.88 for Pharmaceutical Drug, 0.85 for Body Structure and 0.78 for the combined category Disorder+Finding. The obtained results, which are in line with or slightly lower than those for similar studies on English clinical text, many of them conducted using a larger training data set, show that the approaches used for English are also suitable for Swedish clinical text. However, a small proportion of the errors made by the model are less likely to occur in English text, showing that results might be improved by further tailoring the system to clinical Swedish. The entity recognition results for the individual entities Disorder and Finding show that it is meaningful to separate the general category Medical Problem into these two more granular entity types, e.g. for knowledge mining of co-morbidity relations and disorder-finding relations.

@highlight Disorders, Findings, Drugs and Body parts were annotated in Swedish clinical text.
@highlight A conditional random fields model was trained to recognise the annotated entity types.
@highlight English clinical entity recognition approaches were also suitable for Swedish.
@highlight Disorder and Finding are more granular categories than those used in most other studies.
@highlight Results for these two separate categories show that this division is meaningful.
