 Classification is an important issue in data mining and knowledge discovery. It is a significant issue to develop effective and easy approach of rule extraction for classification. A new approach of rule extraction by features of attributes is proposed in this article for word sense disambiguation (WSD). English preposition on is taken as a target word of WSD, a data set of 600 samples is randomly selected from a 350,000 words corpus. Semantic and syntactic features are extracted from the context, and the corresponding formal context is generated. The rules for WSD of English preposition on are extracted based on the theoretical descriptions and calculation of the simple class exclusive attributes and composite class exclusive attributes. The extracted rules are used in the WSD of English preposition on, and the accuracy reaches 93.2%. The results of the comparative analysis show that the proposed feature of attribute approach is simpler, more effective and easier to use than the existing well-formed structural partial ordered attribute diagram approach. word sense disambiguation “on” with the sense of “time” “on” with the sense of neither “time” nor “place” “on” with the sense of “place” noun a formal context a set of objects a set of attributes a set of relation between objects and attributes an object an attribute extent of a concept intent of a concept a subset of M a subset of G empty set a set of a class of objects any set of objects other than G decision attribute set object sets corresponding to the decision attributes non-decision attribute set of a class non-decision attribute set corresponding to G the jth object in G power set of M ci the kth attribute set of P(M ci object set corresponding to m cik a subset of G mutual information probability of co-occurrence of w 1 and w probability of w the ith concept the ith attribute the jth object structural partial ordered attribute diagram

@highlight A new approach of rule extraction by features of attributes is proposed.
@highlight Simple class exclusive attributes and composite class exclusive attributes are calculated.
@highlight The attributes are used in rule extraction for WSD of English preposition on.
@highlight The accuracy of WSD is improved. Comparative result shows the new approach has a few advantages over the well-formed SPOAD approach.
