 After electricity energy market clearing, the network may be operated with a low transient stability margin because of hitting security limits or increasing the contribution of risky participants. Therefore, a new multi-objective model for electricity energy market clearing, considering dynamic security aspect of the power system, is proposed. Indeed, in addition to the economical aspects of electricity markets, i.e. offer cost of generating units, linearized Corrected Transient Energy Margin (CTEM) of system is also considered as new objective function of market clearing problem. A Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm (MOGA) is utilized to solve the multi-objective market clearing problem. The New England test system is used to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. indices of bus number of system buses number of system units index for Pareto optimal solution index of objective functions a binary variable indicating that the unit of ith bus accepted or not in the energy market energy output of the unit at ith bus bid price of the unit at ith bus for energy number of credible contingencies the sensitivity of CTEM with respect to the generation of unit j (P Gj the system CTEM at the base case the system CTEM after a little change ΔP Gj applied in the generation of the unit j with respect to the base case voltage magnitude of the ith bus upper and lower limits of voltage magnitude of ith bus, respectively reactive power output of the unit at ith bus upper and lower limits of active power of the unit at ith bus, respectively upper and lower limits of reactive power of the unit at ith bus, respectively active and reactive loads of ith bus, respectively difference between voltage angles of buses i and j magnitude of element located in ith row and jth column of the admittance matrix of the power system angle of element located in ith row and jth column of the admittance matrix of the power system magnitude of apparent power flow of branch between ith and jth buses apparent power flow capacity of branch between ith and jth buses

@highlight Presenting a new multi-objective model for electricity energy market clearing.
@highlight Considering dynamic security aspect of the power system.
@highlight Offer cost of generating units and Corrected Transient Energy Margin (CTEM) are considered as objectives.
@highlight Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm (MOGA) is utilized to solve the multi-objective market clearing problem.
