 Cognitive radio network (CRN) enables unlicensed users (or secondary users, SUs) to sense for and opportunistically operate in underutilized licensed channels, which are owned by the licensed users (or primary users, PUs). Cognitive radio network (CRN) has been regarded as the next-generation wireless network centered on the application of artificial intelligence, which helps the SUs to learn about, as well as to adaptively and dynamically reconfigure its operating parameters, including the sensing and transmission channels, for network performance enhancement. This motivates the use of artificial intelligence to enhance security schemes for CRNs. Provisioning security in CRNs is challenging since existing techniques, such as entity authentication, are not feasible in the dynamic environment that CRN presents since they require pre-registration. In addition these techniques cannot prevent an authenticated node from acting maliciously. In this article, we advocate the use of reinforcement learning (RL) to achieve optimal or near-optimal solutions for security enhancement through the detection of various malicious nodes and their attacks in CRNs. RL, which is an artificial intelligence technique, has the ability to learn new attacks and to detect previously learned ones. RL has been perceived as a promising approach to enhance the overall security aspect of CRNs. RL, which has been applied to address the dynamic aspect of security schemes in other wireless networks, such as wireless sensor networks and wireless mesh networks can be leveraged to design security schemes in CRNs. We believe that these RL solutions will complement and enhance existing security solutions applied to CRN To the best of our knowledge, this is the first survey article that focuses on the use of RL-based techniques for security enhancement in CRNs.

@highlight Cognitive radio leverages on reinforcement learning (RL) to enhance network security.
@highlight There is lack of reviews on the application of RL to based security schemes.
@highlight We cover the challenges, characteristics, performance enhancements, and others.
