 Innumerable casualties due to intrauterine hypoxia are a major worry during prenatal phase besides advanced patient monitoring with latest science and technology. Hence, the analysis of foetal electrocardiogram (fECG) signals is very vital in order to evaluate the foetal heart status for timely recognition of cardiac abnormalities. Regrettably, the latest technology in the cutting edge field of biomedical signal processing does not seem to yield the desired quality of fECG signals required by physicians, which is the major cause for the pathetic condition. The focus of this work is to extort non-invasive fECG signal with highest possible quality with a motive to support physicians in utilizing the methodology for the latest intrapartum monitoring technique called STAN (ST analysis) for forecasting intrapartum foetal hypoxia. However, the critical quandary is that the non-invasive fECG signals recorded from the maternal abdomen are affected by several interferences like power line interference, baseline drift interference, electrode motion interference, muscle movement interference and the maternal electrocardiogram (mECG) being the dominant interference. A novel hybrid methodology called BANFIS (Bayesian adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system) is proposed. The BANFIS includes a Bayesian filter and an adaptive neuro fuzzy filter for mECG elimination and non-linear artefacts removal to yield high quality fECG signal. Kalman filtering frame work has been utilized to estimate the nonlinear transformed mECG component in the abdominal electrocardiogram (aECG). The adaptive neuro fuzzy filter is employed to discover the nonlinearity of the nonlinear transformed version of mECG and to align the estimated mECG signal with the maternal component in the aECG signal for annulment. The outcomes of the investigation by the proposed BANFIS system proved valuable for STAN system for efficient prediction of foetal hypoxia.

@highlight BANFIS – a novel hybrid methodology.
@highlight Faster convergence rate within 10s.
@highlight Above par SNR evaluation methodology – towards efficiency of the algorithm.
@highlight State of art performance evaluation – towards extorted signal quality.
@highlight Premier quality of foetal signals elicitated – precious for STAN.
