 The purpose of current investigation is to engage two efficient evolvable neuro-evolutionary machines to identify a nonlinear dynamic model for a shape memory alloy (SMA) actuator. SMA materials are kind of smart materials capable of compensating any undergo plastic deformations and return to their memorized shape. This fascinating trait gives them versatility to be applied on different engineering applications such as smart actuators and sensors. As a result, modeling and analyzing of their response is an essential task to researchers. Nevertheless, these materials have intricate behaviors that incorporate the modeling with major dilemma and obstacles. In this research, two novel evolvable machines comprised recurrent neural network (RNN) and two novel hybrid heuristic methods nominally cellular automate and Kohonen map assisted versions of The Great Salmon Run (CTGSR and KTGSR respectively) optimization algorithm are developed to find a robust, representative and reliable recursive identification framework capable of modeling the proposed SMA actuator. To elaborate on the acceptable performance of proposed systems, several experimental tests are carried out. Obtained results reveal the promising potential of the evolvable frameworks for modeling the behavior of SMA as a complex real world engineering system. Furthermore, by executing some comparative tests, the authors indicate that both of their proposed hybrid heuristic algorithms outperform the sole version of TGSR as well as some other well-known evolutionary algorithms.

@highlight Applying the evolving computation concept to train a dynamic black box capable of modeling shape memory alloy actuators.
@highlight Proposing two novel hybrid systems based on cellular automated and self-organizing maps theory.
@highlight Examining the potential of a recent spotlighted metaheuristic called “The Great Salmon Run” for real world applications.
@highlight Elaborating on the performance of proposed method in dynamic environment.
@highlight Analyzing the behavior of proposed shape memory actuator by using the MSE error at each step.
