 Text feature selection is an importance step in text classification and directly affects the classification performance. Classic feature selection methods mainly include document frequency (DF), information gain (IG), mutual information (MI), chi-square test (CHI). Theoretically, these methods are difficult to get improvement due to the deficiency of their mathematical models. In order to further improve effect of feature selection, many researches try to add intelligent optimization algorithms into feature selection method, such as improved ant colony algorithm and genetic algorithms, etc. Compared to the ant colony algorithm and genetic algorithms, particle swarm optimization algorithm (PSO) is simpler to implement and can find the optimal point quickly. Thus, this paper attempt to improve the effect of text feature selection through PSO. By analyzing current achievements of improved PSO and characteristic of classic feature selection methods, we have done many explorations in this paper. Above all, we selected the common PSO model, the two improved PSO models based respectively on functional inertia weight and constant constriction factor to optimize feature selection methods. Afterwards, according to constant constriction factor, we constructed a new functional constriction factor and added it into traditional PSO model. Finally, we proposed two improved PSO models based on both functional constriction factor and functional inertia weight, they are respectively the synchronously improved PSO model and the asynchronously improved PSO model. In our experiments, CHI was selected as the basic feature selection method. We improved CHI through using the six PSO models mentioned above. The experiment results and significance tests show that the asynchronously improved PSO model is the best one among all models both in the effect of text classification and in the stability of different dimensions.

@highlight We proposed three improved Particle swarm optimization models based on a common PSO model and two improved PSO models.
@highlight Selecting Reuters-21578 as the corpus, six experiments are conducted respectively using improved PSO models.
@highlight Combining asynchronously inertia weight and constriction factor is the best program.
@highlight Paired-sample T-tests demonstrate the validness of our best program.
