 Background Software fault prediction is the process of developing models that can be used by the software practitioners in the early phases of software development life cycle for detecting faulty constructs such as modules or classes. There are various machine learning techniques used in the past for predicting faults. Method In this study we perform a systematic review of studies from January 1991 to October 2013 in the literature that use the machine learning techniques for software fault prediction. We assess the performance capability of the machine learning techniques in existing research for software fault prediction. We also compare the performance of the machine learning techniques with the statistical techniques and other machine learning techniques. Further the strengths and weaknesses of machine learning techniques are summarized. Results In this paper we have identified 64 primary studies and seven categories of the machine learning techniques. The results prove the prediction capability of the machine learning techniques for classifying module/class as fault prone or not fault prone. The models using the machine learning techniques for estimating software fault proneness outperform the traditional statistical models. Conclusion Based on the results obtained from the systematic review, we conclude that the machine learning techniques have the ability for predicting software fault proneness and can be used by software practitioners and researchers. However, the application of the machine learning techniques in software fault prediction is still limited and more number of studies should be carried out in order to obtain well formed and generalizable results. We provide future guidelines to practitioners and researchers based on the results obtained in this work.

@highlight Reviews studies from 1991-2013 to assess application of ML techniques for SFP.
@highlight Identifies seven categories of the ML techniques.
@highlight Identifies 64 studies to answer the established research questions.
@highlight Selects primary studies according to the quality assessment of the studies.
@highlight Systematic literature review performs the following:
@highlight Summarize ML techniques for SFP models.
@highlight Assess performance accuracy and capability of ML techniques for constructing SFP models.
@highlight Provide comparison between the ML and statistical techniques.
@highlight Provide comparison of performance accuracy of different ML techniques.
@highlight Summarize the strength and weakness of the ML techniques.
@highlight Provides future guidelines to software practitioners and researchers.
