 Detection of mild laryngeal disorders using acoustic parameters of human voice is the main objective in this study. Observations of sustained phonation (audio recordings of vocalized /a/) are labeled by clinical diagnosis and rated by severity (from 0 to 3). Research is exclusively constrained to healthy (severity 0) and mildly pathological (severity 1) cases – two the most difficult classes to distinguish between. Comprehensive voice signal characterization and information fusion constitute the approach adopted here. Characterization is obtained through diverse feature set, containing 26 feature subsets of varying size, extracted from the voice signal. Usefulness of feature-level and decision-level fusion is explored using support vector machine (SVM) and random forest (RF) as basic classifiers. For both types of fusion we also investigate the influence of feature selection on model accuracy. To improve the decision-level fusion we introduce a simple unsupervised technique for ensemble design, which is based on partitioning the feature set by k-means clustering, where the parameter k controls the size and diversity of the prospective ensemble. All types of the fusion resulted in an evident improvement over the best individual feature subset. However, none of the types, including fusion setups comprising feature selection, proved to be significantly superior over the rest. The proposed ensemble design by feature set decomposition discernibly enhanced decision-level and significantly outperformed feature-level fusion. Ensemble of RF classifiers, induced from a cluster-based partitioning of the feature set, achieved equal error rate of 13.1±1.8% in the detection of mildly pathological larynx. This is a very encouraging result, considering that detection of mild laryngeal disorder is a more challenging task than a common discrimination between healthy and a wide spectrum of pathological cases.

@highlight Various information are extracted from a voice signal for the task of detecting mild disorder of human larynx.
@highlight Feature-level and decision-level fusion is explored using SVM and RF classifiers, wrapper-based AMDE feature selection is also investigated.
@highlight We contribute to feature set decomposition approaches by introducing a simple feature oriented technique for ensemble design, which is based on partitioning the feature set by k-means clustering.
@highlight Results indicate that ensemble of RF classifiers, induced using the proposed technique, significantly improve decision-level and outperform feature-level fusion.
