 In the presented paper a new method of identification of canonical coherent scatterers in the quad-polarimetric SAR data are presented. The proposed method is based on the analysis of polarimetric signatures. The observed signatures are compared with the polarimetric signatures of four canonical objects: trihedral, dihedral and helix – right and left which represent basic scattering mechanisms: single bounce, double bounce and helix scattering. The polarimetric matrices are treated as vectors in a unitary space with a scalar product that generates the norm. A recognized object is classified to one of the four coherent classes by a Kohonen network. It is not trained in an iteration process but its weights are adjusted according to the given patterns. The network classification is supported by rules. The obtained maps of pixels that represent canonical objects are compared with a map of coherent scatterers which was obtained by using the polarimetric entropy approach. The developed method of canonical coherent scatterers identification based on the polarimetric signatures analysis allows us not only to identify precisely the canonical coherent scatterers but also to determine the type of scattering mechanism characteristic for each of them. Since the proposed method works on a single-look (non-averaged) SAR data, it does not cause any spatial nor spectral decrease of amount of information because averaging is not conducted. Moreover, the proposed method will enable us the identification of a type of scattering mechanism in the canonical coherent pixels. This is an improvement in comparison to the existing methods. The obtained results should be more precise because the full polarimetric information about the scatterers is used in the identification procedure.

@highlight The new method of SAR polarimetric signatures recognition is proposed.
@highlight The recognizing system is based on two Kohonen networks.
@highlight The scattering mechanism is recognized as well.
@highlight Applications to the real data have been made.
@highlight The results has been compared with the ones obtained by using entropy method.
