 In this paper, multiresolution local binary pattern (MRLBP) variants based texture feature extraction techniques have been proposed to categorize hardwood species into its various classes. Initially, discrete wavelet transform (DWT) has been used to decompose each image up to 7 levels using Daubechies wavelet (db2) as decomposition filter. Subsequently, six texture feature extraction techniques (local binary pattern and its variants) are employed to obtain substantial features of these images at different levels. Three classifiers, namely, linear discriminant analysis (LDA), linear and radial basis function (RBF) kernel support vector machine (SVM), have been used to classify the images of hardwood species. Thereafter, classification results obtained from conventional and MRLBP variants based texture feature extraction techniques with different classifiers have been compared. For 10-fold cross validation approach, texture features acquired using discrete wavelet transform based uniform completed local binary pattern (DWTCLBPu2) feature extraction technique has produced best classification accuracy of 97.40±1.06% with linear SVM classifier. This classification accuracy has been achieved at the 3 dataset. Further, reduction in dimension of texture features (325 features) by principal component analysis (PCA) has been done and the best classification accuracy of 97.87±0.82% for DWTCLBPu2 at the 3rd level of image decomposition has been obtained using LDA classifier. The DWTCLBPu2 texture features have also established superiority among the MRLBP techniques with reduced dimension features for randomly divided database into fix training and testing ratios.

@highlight A multiresolution local binary pattern (MRLBP) variants based texture feature extraction techniques for hardwood species categorization into 75 classes.
@highlight Feature dimension reduction using principal component analysis.
@highlight Investigation of the effectiveness of MRLBP variants texture features for hardwood species classification using LDA, linear SVM and RBF kernel SVM classifiers.
