 Support vector machine (SVM) is currently state-of-the-art for classification tasks due to its ability to model nonlinearities. However, the main drawback of SVM is that it generates “black box” model, i.e. it does not reveal the knowledge learnt during training in human comprehensible form. The process of converting such opaque models into a transparent model is often regarded as rule extraction. In this paper we proposed a hybrid approach for extracting rules from SVM for customer relationship management (CRM) purposes. The proposed hybrid approach consists of three phases. (i) During first phase; SVM-RFE (SVM-recursive feature elimination) is employed to reduce the feature set. (ii) Dataset with reduced features is then used in the second phase to obtain SVM model and support vectors are extracted. (iii) Rules are then generated using Naive Bayes Tree (NBTree) in the final phase. The dataset analyzed in this research study is about Churn prediction in bank credit card customer  and it is highly unbalanced with 93.24% loyal and 6.76% churned customers. Further we employed various standard balancing approaches to balance the data and extracted rules. It is observed from the empirical results that the proposed hybrid outperformed all other techniques tested. As the reduced feature dataset is used, it is also observed that the proposed approach extracts smaller length rules, thereby improving the comprehensibility of the system. The generated rules act as an early warning expert system to the bank management.

@highlight Support vector machine (SVM) is made transparent by hybridizing it with NBTree.
@highlight Its effectiveness is tested on a medium scale unbalanced dataset related to bank credit card customer churn in analytical CRM.
@highlight Feature selection is carried out by SVM-RFE algorithm.
@highlight Proposed hybrid outperformed other techniques. Feature selection resulted in rules with short lengths and better comprehensibility of the system.
@highlight The generated rules act as an early warning expert system to the bank management.
