 This paper addresses a new method for combination of supervised learning and reinforcement learning (RL). Applying supervised learning in robot navigation encounters serious challenges such as inconsistent and noisy data, difficulty for gathering training data, and high error in training data. RL capabilities such as training only by one evaluation scalar signal, and high degree of exploration have encouraged researchers to use RL in robot navigation problem. However, RL algorithms are time consuming as well as suffer from high failure rate in the training phase. Here, we propose Supervised Fuzzy Sarsa Learning (SFSL) as a novel idea for utilizing advantages of both supervised and reinforcement learning algorithms. A zero order Takagi–Sugeno fuzzy controller with some candidate actions for each rule is considered as the main module of robot's controller. The aim of training is to find the best action for each fuzzy rule. In the first step, a human supervisor drives an E-puck robot within the environment and the training data are gathered. In the second step as a hard tuning, the training data are used for initializing the value (worth) of each candidate action in the fuzzy rules. Afterwards, the fuzzy Sarsa learning module, as a critic-only based fuzzy reinforcement learner, fine tunes the parameters of conclusion parts of the fuzzy controller online. The proposed algorithm is used for driving E-puck robot in the environment with obstacles. The experiment results show that the proposed approach decreases the learning time and the number of failures; also it improves the quality of the robot's motion in the testing environments.

@highlight A novel method for combination of supervised learning and fuzzy reinforcement learning (FRL) is proposed.
@highlight Supervised learning is used for initialization of value (worth) of each candidate action of fuzzy rules in critic-only based FRL algorithms.
@highlight The subsumption architecture is used for robot navigation.
@highlight The proposed algorithm, called SFSL, is used to drive a real robot (E-puck) in an environment with obstacles.
@highlight SFSL outperforms FSL in terms of speed learning, and the number of failures.
