 Arteriosclerosis is considered to be a major cause of cardiovascular diseases, which account for approximately 30% of the causes of death in the world. We have recently demonstrated a strong correlation between arteriosclerosis (arterial elasticity) and two characteristics: maximum systolic velocity (S1) and systolic second peak velocity (S2) of the common carotid artery flow velocity waveform (CCFVW). The CCFVW can be measured by using a small portable measuring device. However, there is currently no theoretical evidence supporting the causes of the relation between CCFVW and arterial elasticity, or the origin of the CCFVW characteristics. In this study, the arterial blood flow was simulated using a one-dimensional systemic arterial segments model of human artery in order to conduct a qualitative evaluation of the relationship between arterial elasticity and the characteristics of CCFVW. The simulation was carried out based on the discretized segments with the physical properties of a viscoelastic tube (the cross-sectional area at the proximal and terminal ends, the length, and the compliance per unit area of the tube (C )). The findings obtained through this study revealed that the simulated CCFVW had shape similar characteristics to that of the measured CCFVW. Moreover, when the compliance C of the model was decreased, the first peak of the simulated-CCFVW decreased and the second peak increased. Further, by separating the anterograde pulse wave and the reflected pulse wave, which form the CCFVW, we found that the decrease in the first peak of the simulated CCFVW was due to the arrival of a reflected pulse wave from the head after the common carotid artery toward the arrival of a anterograde pulse wave ejected directly from the heart and that the increase in the second peak resulted from the arrival of the peak of the reflected pulse wave from the thoracic aorta. These results establish that the CCFVW characteristics contribute to the assessment of arterial elasticity.

@highlight We conduct a fluid simulation using a systemic arterial segments model.
@highlight We conduct a qualitative assessment of the relationship between elasticity and CCFVW.
@highlight The characteristics of the simulated and measured CCFVW have a resemble patterns.
@highlight The second peak of CCFVW is related to the decrease in the elasticity of the aorta.
