 Bipolar disorders are characterized by a mood swing, ranging from mania to depression. A system that could monitor and eventually predict these changes would be useful to improve therapy and avoid dangerous events. Speech might convey relevant information about subjects’ mood and there is a growing interest to study its changes in presence of mood disorders. In this work we present an automatic method to characterize fundamental frequency (F0) dynamics in voiced part of syllables. The method performs a segmentation of voiced sounds from running speech samples and estimates two categories of features. The first category is borrowed from Taylor's Tilt intonational model. However, the meaning of the proposed features is different from the meaning of Taylor's ones since the former are estimated from all voiced segments without performing any analysis of intonation. A second category of features takes into account the speed of change of F0. In this work, the proposed features are first estimated from an emotional speech database. Then, an analysis on speech samples acquired from eleven psychiatric patients experiencing different mood states, and eighteen healthy control subjects is introduced. Subjects had to perform a text reading task and a picture commenting task. The results of the analysis on the emotional speech database indicate that the proposed features can discriminate between high and low arousal emotions. This was verified both at single subject and group level. An intra-subject analysis was performed on bipolar patients and it highlighted significant changes of the features with different mood states, although this was not observed for all the subjects. The directions of the changes estimated for different patients experiencing the same mood swing, were not coherent and were task-dependent. Interestingly, a single-subject analysis performed on healthy controls and on bipolar patients recorded twice with the same mood label, resulted in a very small number of significant differences. In particular a very good specificity was highlighted for the Taylor-inspired features and for a subset of the second category of features, thus strengthening the significance of the results obtained with patients. Even if the number of enrolled patients is small, this work suggests that the proposed features might give a relevant contribution to the demanding research field of speech-based mood classifiers. Moreover, the results here presented indicate that a model of speech changes in bipolar patients might be subject-specific and that a richer characterization of subject status could be necessary to explain the observed variability.

@highlight We present an automatic method for estimating features describing speech F0 contour.
@highlight Analysis on acted emotional speeches distinguished high- from low-arousal emotions.
@highlight Intra-subject analysis on bipolar patients found out differences between mood states.
@highlight The results on bipolar patients are subject-specific and task-dependent.
@highlight Results on controls confirmed a good specificity of the proposed features.
