 Most of usual electrocardiogram (ECG) signals normally keep the signal energy in the 0.05–100Hz band, but higher frequencies containing valuable diagnostic information are also present in wide band (WB) ECG signals. Existing studies on computer-assisted myocardial infarction (MI) diagnosis are mostly based on the usual ECG signals, and the valuable diagnostic information has not been used sufficiently yet. Multivariable autoregressive coefficients were extracted from WB orthogonal ECG (OECG) signals for the classification purpose in this research. The data for the analysis were taken from Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt diagnostic ECG database including health control, MI in early stage and MI in acute stage. In order to further investigate the performance of WB ECG signals, standard ECG signals with a wide frequency band were utilized for the feature extraction and classification as the same way. The experimental results showed that the MI classification accuracy could be improved by introducing WB ECG signals and the features extracted from WB OECG signals with a frequency of 0–250Hz would be the best efficient representation for discriminating different MI stages. The classifiable and efficient features can be extracted from WB OECG signals for the classification of MI stages with a high accuracy. OECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–100Hz OECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–250Hz OECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–500Hz MAR model coefficients estimated from the OECG signal MAR model coefficients estimated from the SECG signal FMAR coefficients estimated from 100Hz_OECG FMAR coefficients estimated from 250Hz_OECG FMAR coefficients estimated from 500Hz_OECG SECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–100Hz SECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–250Hz SECG signal with a bandwidth of 0–500Hz SMAR coefficients estimated from 100Hz_SECG SMAR coefficients estimated from 250Hz_SECG SMAR coefficients estimated from 500Hz_SECG

@highlight The work studies the feature extraction from wide band electrocardiogram (ECG) signals for classifying myocardial infarction (MI) stages.
@highlight The data for the analysis was taken from Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt diagnostic ECG database.
@highlight Multivariable autoregressive modeling technique was employed, and its coefficients were used as features.
@highlight The orthogonal ECG signals and standard ECG signals with different frequency ranges were generated for the analysis.
@highlight MI classification accuracy can be improved by introducing higher frequency components.
