 Quorum sensing (QS) is used to describe the communication between bacterial cells, whereby a coordinated population response is controlled through the synthesis, accumulation and subsequent sensing of specific diffusible chemical signals called autoinducers, enabling a cluster of bacteria to regulate gene expression and behaviour collectively and synchronously, and assess their own population. As a promising method of molecular communication, bacterial populations can be programmed as bio-transceivers to establish information transmission using molecules. In this work, to investigate the key features for molecular communication, a bacterial QS system is introduced, which contains two clusters of bacteria, specifically Vibrio fischeri, as the transmitter node and receiver node, and the diffusive channel. The transmitted information is represented by the concentration of autoinducers with on–off keying (OOK) modulation. In addition, to achieve better reliability, transmission efficiency and channel throughput performance, different Automatic Repeat reQuest (ARQ) protocols are taken into consideration. This configuration is investigated via simulation and the consequent results discussed. The performance of the system is evaluated in terms of transmission time, efficiency, bit error rate (BER) and channel throughput. Results show that Selective-Repeat (SR-ARQ) performs better than Go-Back-N (GBN-ARQ), while the performance of Stop-N-Wait (SW-ARQ) varies for different channel conditions, which is quite different from the performance of ARQ schemes in traditional networking areas.

@highlight We model bacterial communication between two populations of bacteria.
@highlight This model is based on quorum sensing and signalling molecular (AHLs) diffusion.
@highlight Channel noise is introduced by ISI, considering all the previous symbols.
@highlight ARQ dynamics and CRC codes are applied for improvement.
@highlight SR-ARQ performs the best, followed by SW-ARQ; GBN-ARQ performs the worst.
