 Background The current knowledge of internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT) implemented in primary care settings is sparse. Our objective was to explore primary care therapists' experiences and attitudes of ICBT, the opportunities and conditions for research in primary care, and to identify potential barriers to the implementation of ICBT treatment in primary care. Methods Eleven therapists (of 14) participating in the research and implementation project PRIM-NET completed a survey. Four of them were selected also for a detailed semi-structured interview. Data from the interviews were analyzed qualitatively and according to methods used in implementation science. Results Six general themes were identified in which the therapists considered ICBT as a good treatment that ought to be introduced in primary care. To optimize procedure in primary care settings, several adaptations of ICBT were suggested. Integrating and blending ICBT and face-to-face therapies, for example, would render primary care psychology more efficient. The PRIM-NET study and research within primary care was seen as rewarding and necessary, but challenging. To a large extent primary care still revolves around the general practitioner, with a focus on production, finances, and a somatic aspect of the patients. Five possible barriers to implementation of ICBT were identified which perhaps explains why psychological procedures are not fully integrated into primary care. Conclusions Although the implementation of new methods and routines is typically accompanied by challenges, the overall experience of the therapists supports the implementation of ICBT as an additional treatment in primary care.

@highlight Therapistssee ICBT as a good treatment that should be introduced in primary care.
@highlight Adaptations of ICBT to the primary care context could improve usability.
@highlight Barriers to implementation, and perhaps integration of psychology were identified.
@highlight The experience of the therapists supports the implementation of ICBT in primary care.
