 An e-learning supported Train-the-Trainer program was developed to implement the Dutch suicide practice guideline in mental health care. Literature on implementation strategies has been restricted to the final reporting of studies with little opportunity to describe relevant contextual, developmental and supporting work that would allow for a better interpretation of results and enhance the likelihood of successful replication of interventions. Therefore, in this paper we describe the theoretical and empirical background, the material and practical starting points of the program. We monitored the number of professionals that were trained during and after a cluster randomized trial in which the effects of the program have been examined. Each element of the intervention (Train-the-Trainer element, one day face-to-face training, e-learning) is described in detail. During the trial, 518 professionals were trained by 37 trainers. After the trial over 5000 professionals and 180 gatekeepers were trained. The e-learning module for trainees is currently being implemented among 30 mental health care institutions in The Netherlands. These results suggest that an e-learning supported Train-the-Trainer program is an efficient way to uptake new interventions by professionals. The face-to-face training was easily replicable so it was easy to adhere to the training protocol. E-learning made the distribution of the training material more viable, although the distribution was limited by problems with ICT facilities. Overall, the intervention was well received by both trainers and trainees. By thoroughly describing the material and by offering all training materials online, we aim at further dissemination of the program.

@highlight This paper describes an e-learning supported intervention to implement a suicide practice guideline.
@highlight Results show that the program is well received and easy to replicate.
@highlight Insufficient ICT-facilities in mental health care institutions limited the uptake of e-learning.
@highlight All training material is freely available online.
