 This review details the current understanding of the mechanism of action and corneal effects of mitomycin C for prophylactic prevention of stromal fibrosis after photorefractive keratectomy and includes discussion of available information on dosage and exposure time recommended for MMC during PRK . MMC is an alkylating agent with DNA crosslinking activity that inhibits DNA replication and cellular proliferation . It acts as a pro drug and requires reduction in the tissue to be converted to an active agent capable of DNA alkylation . Although MMC augments the early keratocyte apoptosis wave in the anterior corneal stroma its most important effect responsible for inhibition of fibrosis in surface ablation procedures such as PRK is via the inhibition of mitosis of myofibroblast precursor cells during the first few weeks after PRK . MMC use is especially useful when treating eyes with higher levels of myopia which have shown higher risk of developing fibrosis . Studies have supported the use of MMC at a concentration of 0.02 rather than lower doses for optimal reduction of fibrosis after PRK . Exposure times for 0.02 MMC longer than 40s may be beneficial for moderate to high myopia but shorter exposures times appear to be equally effective for lower levels of myopia . Although MMC treatment may also be beneficial in preventing fibrosis after PRK treatments for hyperopia and astigmatism more studies are needed . Thus despite the clinical use of MMC after PRK for nearly twenty yearswith limited evidence of harmful effects in the corneamany decades of experience will be needed to exclude late long term effects that could be noted after MMC treatment .

@highlight Mitomycin C MMC is an alkylating agent with DNA crosslinking activity.
@highlight MMC inhibits DNA replication and cellular proliferation.
@highlight MMC inhibits the development of mature myofibroblasts that cause stromal scarring fibrosis.
@highlight MMC has been found to produce little if any corneal toxicity when used as adjuvant treatment in PRK.
