 No other tissue in the body depends more on the composition and organization of the extracellular matrix for normal structure and function than the corneal stroma . The precise arrangement and orientation of collagen fibrils lamellae and keratocytes that occurs during development and is needed in adults to maintain stromal function is dependent on the regulated interaction of multiple ECM components that contribute to attain the unique properties of the cornea transparency shape mechanical strength and avascularity . This review summarizes the contribution of different ECM components their structure regulation and function in modulating the properties of the corneal stroma . Fibril forming collagens fibril associated collagens with interrupted triple helices network forming collagens as well as small leucine rich proteoglycans expressed in the stroma decorin biglycan lumican keratocan and fibromodulin are some of the ECM components reviewed in this manuscript . There are spatial and temporal differences in the expression of these ECM components as well as interactions among them that contribute to stromal function . Unique regions within the stroma like Bowman s layer and Descemet s layer are discussed . To define the complexity of corneal stroma composition and structure as well as the relationship to function is a daunting task . Our knowledge is expanding and we expect that this review provides a comprehensive overview of current knowledge definition of gaps and suggests future research directions .

@highlight The unique corneal stromal structure and function is regulated by different extracellular matrix components.
@highlight The stroma proper as well as Bowman and Descemetslayers have unique ECM compositions and functions.
@highlight Regulated collagen fibril formation is critical for stromal structure and function.
@highlight ECM molecules including SLRPs regulate stromal fibrillogenesis hydration and the availability of growth factors.
@highlight Regulation of ECM components play a major role in wound healing.
