 We studied the early protein profile in the ocular tissue extracted after LASIK and SMILE surgery . SMILE and LASIK was performed in contralateral eyes and stromal tissue samples were collected from 10 eyes of 5 donors . The stromal tissue samples were analyzed using label free quantification approach and ITRAQ labelling approach in LC MS MS . Combined functional analysis revealed many differentially expressed proteins which were involved in important biological processes . About 117 unique differentially expressed proteins were identified using two different proteomic approaches . Collagens proteoglycans corneal crystallins were enriched and showed differential expression in SMILE and LASIK as compared to the non surgical control . Apart from these 14 3 3 class of proteins Lysozyme Macrophage Migratory Inhibitory Factor protein Pigment Epithelial Derived Factor were differentially expressed when compared between LASIK and SMILE . Peroxiredoxin 1 expression was found to be reduced in LASIK as compared to SMILE . The expression of Lysozyme C and Macrophage Migratory Inhibitory Factor inflammatory response was found to be less in SMILE as compared to LASIK . Western blot validation of specific markers such as Collagen IV Keratocan Lumican Aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 A1 Lysozyme C confirmed the differences in the protein levels observed in SMILE and LASIK operated tissues as compared to non surgical controls . In conclusion this study revealed the early molecular changes occurring in the cornea resulting from these two surgical procedures which may have implications on managing post operative complications .

@highlight Collagens proteoglycans corneal crystallins expressed differentially in SMILE and LASIK as compared to control.
@highlight Reduced expression of proinflammatory factors and lesser reduction in neurotrophic markers in SMILE compared to LASIK.
@highlight Novel factors 14 3 3 class of proteins PEDF associated with the immediate post surgical response may be important targets.
@highlight Wound healing post SMILE surgery may be better resulting in reduced post operative complications when compared to LASIK.
