 Neuronal excitotoxicity caused by over activation of N Methyl D Aspartate receptors is an important risk factor for the retinal ganglion cells death in glaucoma . D serine played a role as a key co agonist for NMDA receptor activity and neurotoxicity . Our previous studies have demonstrated that increased D serine and serine racemase expression in the retina of the chronic intraocular hypertension model were detected . D amino acid oxidase treatment significantly increased RGCs survival in the glaucomatous eyes . However the molecular mechanism remains unclear . In the present study we investigated the extracellular signal regulated protein kinase1 2 signaling pathway involved in DAAO neuroprotective effects on RGC survival and explore the effect of inhibited ERK1 2 phosphorylation on RGC survival and Mller cell activation in a COH rat model . We found that ERK1 2 phosphorylation and p38 kinase phosphorylation increased in the COH model while c Jun N terminal kinase phosphorylation didn t change . DAAO treatment induced ERK 1 2 MAP kinase phosphorylation and its upstream regulator p MEK increased in the COH model . The increased p ERK was mainly located in retinal Mller cells . In contrast p JNK and p p38 protein expression was not significantly different under these conditions . Quantitative analysis of RGC survival by fluorescent labeling and TdT mediated dUTP nick end labeling assays confirmed that p ERK1 2 inhibition by PD98059 attenuates DAAO mediated reductions in RGC apoptosis . Additionally p ERK1 2 inhibition induced elevated glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in Mller cells in the COH model . Together these results suggest that the ERK1 2 signaling pathway is involved in DAAO s neuroprotective effects on RGC survival .

@highlight Phosphorylation of ERK 1 2 and p38 increased in the COH model but not JNK.
@highlight DAAO treatment induced the phosphorylation of ERK 1 2 in the COH model.
@highlight ERK inhibitor PD98059 attenuated DAAO mediated reduction in RGC apoptosis.
@highlight Inhibition of p ERK induced elevated GFAP expression in Mller cells in the COH model.
