 Inflammasome contributes to ischemic brain injury by inducing pyroptosis and inflammation . The aim of this study is to unravel the mechanism of long non coding RNA maternally expressed gene 3 mediated regulation of absent in melanoma 2 inflammasome during cerebral ischemia reperfusion . In vivo middle cerebral artery occlusion rat model and in vitro oxygen glucose deprivation reperfusion treated neurocytes model were generated . TTC H E staining and TUNEL were performed to assess the cerebral ischemic injury . LDH and MTT assays were used to detect cell viability and cytotoxicity . qRT PCR was used to detect the expression levels of MEG3 miR 485 and AIM2 . Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence were conducted to detect the AIM2 expression . ELISA and Western blotting were performed to determine the secretion and protein levels of inflammasome signaling proteins . Dual luciferase reporter assay and Ago2 RIP were used to validate the direct interaction among MEG3 miR 485 and AIM2 . In both MCAO rats and OGD R treated neurocytes MEG3 and AIM2 were significantly up regulated whereas miR 485 was down regulated . MCAO induces pyroptosis and release of IL 1 and IL 18 in ischemia brain . MEG3 acted as a molecular sponge to suppress miR 485 and AIM2 was identified as a direct target of miR 485 . Knockdown of MEG3 inhibited OGD R induced pyroptosis and inflammation and lack of MEG3 inhibited caspase1 signaling and decreased the expression of AIM2 ASC cleaved caspase1 and GSDMD N. While overexpression of MEG3 exerted opposite effects . MEG3 miR 485 AIM2 axis contributes to pyroptosis via activating caspase1 signaling during cerebral I R suggesting that this axis may be a potent therapeutic target in ischemic stroke .

@highlight MEG3 and AIM2 are up regulated whereas miR 485 is down regulated in the in vivo and in vitro models of cerebral I R.
@highlight MEG3 positively regulates the expression of AIM2 via sponging miR 485.
@highlight Knockdown of MEG3 inhibits OGD R induced pyroptosis and inflammation by directly up regulating miR 485.
@highlight Knockdown of MEG3 alleviated AIM2 mediated pyroptosis via inhibiting caspase1 signaling.
