 Decreases in energy metabolism following traumatic brain injury are attributed to impairment of glycolytic flux and oxidative phosphorylation . Glucose utilization post TBI is decreased while administration of alternative substrates has been shown to be neuroprotective . Changes in energy metabolism following TBI happens in two phases a period of hyper metabolism followed by prolonged hypo metabolism . It is not understood how different cerebral metabolic states may impact substrate metabolism and ultimately mitochondrial function . Adult male or female Sprague Dawley rats were given sham surgery or controlled cortical impact and were assigned one of two administration schemes . Glucose lactate or beta hydroxybutyrate were infused i.v . either starting immediately after injury or beginning 6h post injury for 3h to reflect the hyper and hypo metabolic stages . Animals were euthanized 24h post injury . The peri contusional cortex was collected and assayed for mitochondrial respiration peroxide production and citrate synthase activity . Tissue acetyl CoA ATP glycogen and HMGB1 were also quantified . Sex differences were observed in injury pattern . Administration based on cerebral metabolic state identified that only early lactate and late BHB improved mitochondrial function and peroxide production and TCA cycle intermediates in males . In contrast both early and late BHB had deleterious effects on all aspects of metabolic measurements in females . These data stress there is no one optimal alternative substrate but rather the fuel type used should be guided by both cerebral metabolic state and sex .

@highlight Alternative substrates were given during hyper or hypo cerebral metabolic states.
@highlight Alternative substrate metabolism was dependent on cerebral metabolic state.
@highlight Optimal substrate delivery was determined by mitochondrial outcomes.
@highlight Metabolic injury patterns were sex dependent.
@highlight Sex differences were observed in substrate metabolism.
