 To establish an animal model for posttraumatic stress disorder in burn injured patients . Thermal injured mice with 15 total body surface area were subjected to a series of neurobehavioral tests at 1 and 3months postburn . Brains were collected for analysis of key molecules expression spleens for T cell function analysis and blood for biochemistry and hormones detection . Comparison with sham mice burn mice showed extremely high locomotion in homecage open field and forced swimming tests indicating a hyper arousal state . Burn mice exhibited improved spatial memory in Morris Water Maze test and heightened context fear memory in context fear conditioning suggesting re experiencing behavior . Although burn mice showed pronounced passive avoidance in the step through test their active avoidance capability in response to the conditional stimulus in the shuttle box test was relatively deteriorated . Likewise the retention of cue feared memory was impaired in fear conditioning test . The above negative alterations in mood were recapitulated in open field test in which the burn mice displayed an anxiety like behavior with less time spent in the center . However no sign of depression was found in the forced swimming and sucrose preference tests . The negative mood of burn mice was reinforced by a deficit in sociality and preference for social novelty in social interaction test . These neurobehavioral alterations were associated with an increased expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor along with a remarkable microgliosis and a moderate astrocytosis in the brain of burn We conclude that even mild burn injury could lead to long lasting cognitive and effective alterations in mice . These findings shed light on the interactions among neuropsychology neurobiology and immunology throughout the recovery period of burn injury .

@highlight Burn mice manifested long lasting improved spatial and contextual fear memories corresponding to the re experiencing symptom in PTSD.
@highlight The worsened coping ability and sociability of burn injured mice resembles the negative mood symptoms in PTSD.
@highlight Burn mice showed extremely higher locomotion throughout the tests mimicking the arousal symptom in PTSD.
@highlight Increased microgliosis astrocytosis and BDNF expression in the brain of burn mice may attribute to the neurobehavioral alterations.
