 Retinal ischemia is a common condition that may lead into vision impairment and blindness . In this study we evaluated changes separately in On and Off visual responses induced by retinal ischemia . To do this reversible retinal ischemia was induced in anaesthetized rats by increasing the intraocular pressure until the eye fundus became whitish for either 30 or 60min . Both electroretinogram and multiunit neuronal activity in the superior colliculus were recorded simultaneously for at least 20min before during and after ischemia . In addition in normal eyes intravitreal glycine injections were performed to further investigate the mechanisms involved in this process . We found that collicular Off responses were more sensitive to ischemia than On responses . The Off response was the first one to decay at the time ischemia was induced and the last to recover after blood reperfusion . The duration of ischemia also differentially affected both responses . After 30min of ischemia 14 of SC recordings failed to recover Off responses . After 1h of ischemia the percentage of recordings that failed to recover Off responses increased to 50 . Post ischemic ERGs remained unaltered in all cases . Intravitreal Gly injections caused suppression of Off responses in the SC . Higher doses caused suppression of both On and Off responses in the SC but with no effect on the ERG at the doses tested . In summary Off responses were more sensitive than On responses to ischemia suggesting that different mechanisms drive the two types of responses . The recovery of transitory ischemia was not complete in the SC responses whereas the ERG remained unaltered suggesting that retinal damage produced by ischemia is more prominent in ganglion cells . Our results provide critical information for understanding ischemia repercussions and visual processing in the early visual system .

@highlight Collicular Off responses were more sensitive than ON responses to ischemia.
@highlight Duration of ischemia differentially affected both responses On and Off .
@highlight Recovery of ischemia was not complete in the SC whereas the ERG remained unaltered.
