 Pre harvest burning of sugarcane fields produces large amounts of air pollutants which are known to cause health problems including ocular surface abnormalities . In this study we evaluated the effect of biomass burning on mucus quality and mucin gene expression in the conjunctiva of sugarcane workers and residents of an adjacent town . Impression cytology samples of the inferior tarsal and bulbar conjunctiva of 78 SWs and 32 RTs were collected before and immediately after a 6 month harvest period . The neutral acid and total mucus content of goblet cells was determined by PAS and AB staining . The levels of MUC5AC MUC1 and MUC16 mRNA in the conjunctiva were measured by real time PCR . Compared to RTs SWs had higher levels of bulbar acid mucus and MUC16 mRNA and tarsal MUC5AC mRNA at T2 and lower levels of neutral mucus at T1 and T2 . In the SW group MUC1 mRNA levels were higher at T2 than at T1 but the levels of neutral and acid mucus were similar . In the RT group acid mucus decreased and neutral mucus increased in the bulbar and tarsal conjunctiva at T2 . In conclusion our findings show that sugarcane harvesting is associated with abnormalities in mucus quality and content and changes in mucin mRNA levels on the ocular surface . This may help explain the ocular inflammatory signs and symptoms observed in subjects exposed to air pollutants and high temperatures from sugarcane biomass burning .

@highlight Sugarcane burning is known to produce large amounts of air pollutants at the harvest season.
@highlight Impression cytology of bulbar and tarsal conjunctiva of sugarcane workers and residents nearby town were collected.
@highlight The samples were processed to analysis the mucus profile neutral acid and the MUC1 MUC5AC and MUC16 mRNA levels.
@highlight Sugarcane workers had lower levels of conjunctiva neutral mucus than the town residents before and after the harvest season.
@highlight Sugarcane harvesting decreased acid and increased neutral mucus and MUC5AC mRNA levels in the conjunctiva in town residents.
