 Multiple system atrophy is a fatal disorder with no effective treatment . MSA pathology is characterized by synuclein accumulation in oligodendrocytes the myelinating glial cells of the central nervous system . aSyn accumulation in oligodendrocytes forms the pathognomonic glial cytoplasmic inclusions of MSA . MSA aSyn pathology is also associated with motor and autonomic dysfunction including an impaired ability to sweat . MSA patients have abnormal CNS expression of glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor and brain derived neurotrophic factor . Our prior studies using the parent compound FTY720 a food and drug administration approved immunosuppressive for multiple sclerosis reveal that FTY720 protects parkinsonian mice by increasing BDNF . Our FTY720 derivative FTY720 Mitoxy is known to increase expression of oligodendrocyte BDNF GDNF and nerve growth factor but does not reduce levels of circulating lymphocytes as it is not phosphorylated so can not modulate sphingosine 1 phosphate receptors . To preclinically assess FTY720 Mitoxy for MSA we used mice expressing human aSyn in oligodendrocytes under a 2 3 cyclic nucleotide 3 phosphodiesterase promoter . CNP aSyn transgenic mice develop motor dysfunction between 7 and 9 mo and progressive GCI pathology . Using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and enzymatic assays we confirmed that FTY720 Mitoxy was stable and active . Vehicle or FTY720 Mitoxy was delivered to wild type or Tg littermates from 8.511.5 mo by osmotic pump . We behaviorally assessed their movement by rotarod and sweat production by starchiodine test . Postmortem tissues were evaluated by qPCR for BDNF GDNF NGF and GDNF receptor RET mRNA and for aSyn BDNF GDNF and Iba1 protein by immunoblot . MicroRNAs were also assessed by qPCR . FTY720 Mitoxy normalized movement sweat function and soleus muscle mass in 11.5 mo Tg MSA mice . FTY720 Mitoxy also increased levels of brain GDNF and reduced brain miR 96 5p a miRNA that acts to decrease GDNF expression . Moreover FTY720 Mitoxy blocked aSyn pathology measured by sequential protein extraction and immunoblot and microglial activation assessed by immunohistochemistry and immunoblot . In the 3 nitropropionic acid toxin model of MSA FTY720 Mitoxy protected movement and mitochondria in WT and CNP aSyn Tg littermates . Our data confirm potent

@highlight CNP aSyn MSA mice develop age onset motor and sweat dysfunction synucleinopathy and neuroinflammation
@highlight FTY720 Mitoxy improves movement muscle mass and sweat function in MSA mice
@highlight FTY720 Mitoxy reduces MSA mouse synucleinopathy and neuroinflammation
@highlight FTY720 Mitoxy also increases RET and GDNF mRNA while reducing GDNF modulating miR 96 5p levels
