 Stroke remains a leading cause of disability in the United States . Despite recent advances interventions to reduce damage and enhance recovery after stroke are lacking . P2X4R a receptor for adenosine triphosphate regulates activation of myeloid immune cells after stroke injury . However over stimulation of P2X4Rs due to excessive ATP release from dying or damaged neuronal cells can contribute to ischemic injury . Therefore we pharmacologically inhibited P2X4R to limit the over stimulated myeloid cell immune response and improve both acute and chronic stroke recovery . We subjected 812 week old male and female wild type mice to a 60min right middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 3 or 30days of reperfusion . We performed histological RNA sequencing behavioral and biochemical analyses to determine the acute and chronic effects of P2X4R antagonist 5 BDBD treatment . 5 BDBD treatment significantly reduced infarct volume neurological deficit score levels of cytokine interleukin 1 beta and blood brain barrier permeability in the 3 day group . Chronically 5 BDBD treatment also conferred progressive recovery of motor balance and coordination using a rotarod test as well as reduced anxiety like behavior over 30days . Interestingly depressive type behavior was not observed in mice treated with 5 BDBD for 3days . In addition flow cytometric analysis revealed that 5 BDBD treatment decreased the total number of infiltrated leukocytes and among those infiltrated leukocytes pro inflammatory cells of myeloid origin were specifically reduced . 5 BDBD treatment reduced the cell surface expression of P2X4R in flow cytometry sorted monocytes and microglia without reducing the total P2X4R level in brain tissue . In summary acute P2X4R inhibition protects against ischemic injury at both acute and chronic time points after stroke . Reduced numbers of infiltrating pro inflammatory myeloid cells decreased surface P2X4R expression and reduced BBB disruption are likely its mechanism of neuroprotection and neuro rehabilitation .

@highlight Acute blockade of P2X4R provide neuroprotection and neuro rehabilitation.
@highlight 5 BDBD reduce infiltration of peripheral immune cells after stroke.
@highlight 5 BDBD treatment diminish BBB permeability and myeloid cell activation.
