 Huntington s disease is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the widely expressed huntingtin protein . Multiple studies have indicated the importance of mutant huntingtin in astrocytes to HD pathogenesis . Astrocytes exhibit SNARE dependent exocytosis and gliotransmission which can be hampered by transgenic expression of dominant negative SNARE in these glial cells . We used BACHD mice and crossed them with the dnSNARE model to determine if pan astrocytic SNARE dependent exocytosis plays an important role in vivo in the progression of HD behavioral phenotypes . We assessed motor and neuropsychiatric behaviors in these mice . At 12months of age there was a significant improvement in motor coordination in BACHD dnSNARE mice when compared to BACHD mice . Analyses of open field performance revealed significant worsening of center entry but not distance traveled in BACHD dnSNARE when compared to BACHD mice and variable inconclusive results on vertical plane entry . While no differences between BACHD and BACHD dnSNARE mice at 12months of age in the forced swim test were found we did observe a significant decrease in performance of BACHD dnSNARE mice in the light dark box paradigm . Thus reduction of astrocytic SNARE dependent exocytosis has differential effects on the psychiatric like and motor phenotypes observed in BACHD mice . These data suggest broadly targeting SNARE dependent exocytosis in astrocytes throughout the brain as a means to modulate gliotransmission in HD may contribute to worsening of specific behavioral deficits and perhaps a brain region specific approach would be required .

@highlight Using transgenic dnSNARE expression to block astrocytic SNARE dependent exocytosis has differential effects on behavior.
@highlight Hampering astrocytic SNARE dependent exocytosis improved motor coordination in BACHD mice.
@highlight BACHD mice were more anxious after a reduction in astrocytic SNARE dependent exocytosis.
