 Cannabinoids are part of an endogenous signaling system found throughout the body including the eye . Hepler and Frank showed in the early 1970s that plant cannabinoids can lower intraocular pressure an effect since shown to occur via cannabinoid CB1 and GPR18 receptors . Endocannabinoids are synthesized and metabolized enzymatically . Enzymes implicated in endocannabinoids breakdown include monoacylglycerol lipase and fatty acid amide hydrolase but also ABHD12 NAAA and COX 2 . Inhibition of MAGL activity raises levels of the endocannabinoid 2 arachidonoyl glycerol and substantially lowers IOP . Blocking other cannabinoid metabolizing enzymes or cannabinoid transporters may similarly contribute to lowering IOP and so serve as therapeutic targets for treating glaucoma . We have tested blockers for several cannabinoid metabolizing enzymes and transporters for their ability to alter ocular pressure in a murine model of IOP . Of FAAH ABHD12 NAAA and COX2 only FAAH was seen to play a role in regulation of IOP . Only the FAAH blocker URB597 lowered IOP but in a temporally diurnally and sex specific manner . We also tested two blockers of cannabinoid transport finding that each lowered IOP in a CB1 dependent manner . Though we see a modest limited role for FAAH our results suggest that MAGL is the primary cannabinoid metabolizing enzyme in regulating ocular pressure thus pointing towards a role of 2 arachidonoyl glycerol . Interestingly inhibition of cannabinoid transport mechanisms independent of hydrolysis may prove to be an alternative strategy to lower ocular pressure .

@highlight Endocannabinoid metabolizing enzymes and transporters may offer an attractive target to regulate ocular pressure.
@highlight Blocking either of the hypothesized endocannabinoid transporters lowers ocular pressure.
@highlight Fatty acid amide hydrolase FAAH appears to play a complex sex and time dependent role in regulating endocannabinoids.
@highlight COX2 ABHD12 and NAAA do not appear to contribute to endocannabinoid metabolism in the context of regulation of ocular pressure.
