 The activation of tyrosine kinase receptor c Met by hepatocyte growth factor showed an anti apoptotic effect in numerous disease models . This study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective mechanism of the HGF c Met axis mediated anti apoptosis underlying the delayed recanalization in a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion . Permanent MCAO model was induced by intravascular filament insertion . Recanalization was induced by withdrawing the filament at 3days after MCAO . HGF levels in the blood serum and brain tissue expressions of HGF c Met phosphorylated STAT3 STAT3 Bcl 2 Bax cleaved caspase 3 were assessed using ELISA and western blot respectively . To study the mechanism HGF small interfering ribonucleic acid and c Met inhibitor su11274 were administered intracerebroventricularly or intranasally respectively . The concentration of HGF in the serum was increased significantly after MCAO . Brain expression of HGF was increased after MCAO and peaked at 3days after recanalization . HGF and c Met were both co localized with neurons . Compared to rats received permanent MCAO delayed recanalization after MCAO decreased the infarction volume inhibited neuronal apoptosis and improved neurobehavioral function increased expressions of p STAT3 and its downstream Bcl 2 . Mechanistic studies indicated that HGF siRNA and su11274 reversed the neuroprotection including anti apoptotic effects provided by delayed recanalization . In conclusion the delayed recanalization after MCAO increased the expression of HGF in the brain and reduced the infarction and neuronal apoptosis after MCAO partly via the activation of the HGF c Met STAT3 Bcl 2 signaling pathway . The delayed recanalization may serve as a therapeutic alternative for a subset of ischemic stroke patients .

@highlight Delayed recanalization at 3days after MCAO decreases infarction and improves neurobehavioral score in rats.
@highlight Apoptosis can be detected at 6days after permanent MCAO and it is inhibited by delayed recanalization.
@highlight HGF c Met pathway plays an important role in anti apoptotic effect observed after delayed recanalization.
