 Cerebral ischemia reperfusion after cardiac arrest induces mitochondrial dysfunction and the timely removal of damaged mitochondria by mitophagy is reported to protect against cerebral I R injury . Therapeutic hypothermia has become an important component of postresuscitation care for patients who return to spontaneous circulation after CA . Previous studies have shown that TH can activate mitophagy and can contribute a protective effect however the optimal rewarming rate and underlying mechanism of rewarming following TH remain largely unexplained . Here we investigated the effects of different rewarming rates and whether mitophagy is involved in rewarming . After 5min of asphyxial CA following 4h of cooling Sprague Dawley rats were randomized into the normothermia hypothermia slow rewarming and fast rewarming groups . The hypothermia group was kept cool until tissue harvest the rewarming duration for the slow rewarming group and fast rewarming group was 6h and 45min respectively . We found that slowly rewarmed rats had better survival at 72h than normothermic rats and fast rewarmed rats and higher neurological deficit scores in which the medians were 57.33 26 and 28.83 respectively . In addition we explored the underlying mechanism during this process and found that PINK1 Parkin mediated mitophagy was activated during hypothermia in the slow rewarming group but was inhibited in the fast rewarming group . Further inhibition of mitophagy in the slowly rewarmed rats resulted in severe apoptosis and decreased the mean NDS from 58.39 to 33.11 indicating the protective role of mitophagy . Moreover the fast rewarming group exhibited deficiencies in PINK1 expression and mitophagy activity and marked accumulation of reactive oxygen species . Overall our results highlighted a neuroprotective role of PINK1 Parkin mediated mitophagy during slow rewarming after hypothermia .

@highlight Slow rewarming improves outcomes and activates PINK1 Parkin mediated mitophagy.
@highlight Mitophagy inhibition aggravates apoptosis and neuronal damage during slow rewarming.
@highlight PINK1 and mitophagy deficiency are accompanied by increased ROS in fast rewarming.
