 Recently we discovered that the cosmetic preservatives benzalkonium chloride and formaldehyde are especially toxic to human meibomian gland epithelial cells . Exposure to these agents at concentrations approved for human use leads within hours to cellular atrophy and death . We hypothesize that these effects are not unique and that other cosmetic preservatives also exert adverse effects on HMGECs . Such compounds include parabens phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin which have been reported to be toxic to corneal and conjunctival epithelial cells the liver and kidney as well as to irritate the eye . To test our hypothesis we examined the influence of parabens phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin on the morphology signaling survival proliferation and lipid expression of immortalized HMGECs . These cells were cultured under proliferating or differentiating conditions with varying concentrations of methylparaben ethylparaben phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin for up to 5 days . We monitored the signaling ability appearance number and neutral lipid content of the IHMGECs as well as their lysosome accumulation . Our findings show that a 30 min exposure of IHMGECs to these preservatives results in a significant reduction in the activity of the Akt pathway . This effect is dose dependent and occurs at concentrations equal to and less than those dosages approved for human use . Further a 24 h treatment of the IHMGECs with concentrations of methylparaben ethylparaben phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin close to or at the approved human dose induces cellular atrophy and death . At all concentrations tested no preservative stimulated IHMGEC proliferation . Of particular interest it was not possible to evaluate the influence of these preservatives at close to human approved dosages on IHMGEC differentiation because the cells did not survive the treatment . In summary our results support our hypothesis and show that methylparaben ethylparaben phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin are toxic to IHMGECs .

@highlight At concentrations approved for human use we measured the effect of cosmetic preservatives methylparaben ethylparaben phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin on the morphology signaling ability survival proliferation and differentiation of IHMGECs.
@highlight Our findings support our hypothesis and show that the cosmetic preservatives methylparaben ethylparaben phenoxyethanol and chlorphenesin are toxic to IHMGECs.
