 The retina acts as an independent clock informing the central pacemaker the suprachiasmatic nucleus under environmental light conditions with consequences of such inputs for the central and peripheral nervous system . Differences in the behavior of the left and right retinas depending on environmental light conditions may influence the information projected to the brain hemispheres . The retina possesses neuropeptides that act as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators . Alanyl aminopeptidase activity regulates some of these neuropeptides and therefore reflects their function . We analyzed AlaAP activity in the left and right retinas of adult male rats at successive time points under standard and nonstandard conditions . AlaAP activity was measured fluorometrically using alanyl beta naphthylamide as the substrate . Under standard conditions there were no differences in the left or right retina between time points with the left retina predominating particularly in the light period . In contrast under constant light no left versus right differences were observed but significant differences between time points appeared . In comparison with standard conditions constant conditions led to significantly higher AlaAP activity . Considering all the left retina data in comparison with all the right retina data no correlation was found between the left and right retinas under standard conditions but a significant positive correlation was observed under constant light . These results demonstrate an asymmetrical response of retinal AlaAP activity to changes in environmental light conditions which may affect the functions in which the substrates of AlaAP are involved and the information projected to the brain hemispheres .

@highlight The eyes are the only way of entering light information in mammals.
@highlight Retinal neuropeptidergic function may modulate the information sent to brain hemispheres.
@highlight Some retinal neuropeptides are regulated by AlaAP activity.
@highlight Retinal AlaAP activity responds asymmetrically to changes in environmental light.
@highlight Asymmetry in retinal AlaAP activity may influence the information sent to the brain.
