 Retinoblastoma is a childhood eye tumor caused by RB1 mutation . Though diagnosing RB is easier prognosticating RB is limited to examining the patient under anesthesia and imaging technique . The aim of the study is to find exosomal miRNA biomarkers to prognosticate RB . Exosomes were isolated from one control MIO M1 and two RB cell lines WERI Rb 1 and NCC RbC 51 . Small RNA sequencing was performed on exosomal miRNA isolated from the three cell lines . miRNAs specific to each cell line were shortlisted . A total of 243 606 and 400 miRNAs were identified in MIO M1 WERI Rb 1 and NCC RbC 51cell lines respectively . Nine miRNAs were shortlisted based on adjusted p value and literature MIO M1 specific WERI RB 1 specific NCC RbC 51 specific and miRNAs common to both RB cell lines were chosen . Validation was done using specific Taqman miRNA assays.miRNA validation was carried out on cell lines cell line derived exosomes primary RB tissues and exosomes isolated from serum of the RB patients . Validation of the miRNAs in cell lines and exosomes derived from the cell lines confirmed the sequencing data . However only 2 miRNAs hsa miR 301b 3p and hsa miR 216b 5p were upregulated in the primary RB tissues . None of the miRNAs had significant expression in the serum exosomes of RB patients . Therefore serum exosomal miRNA may not be ideal for prognosticating RB.Further research on other body fluids like CSF and vitreous could serve as potential source for biomarkers for prognosticating RB .

@highlight Prognosticating RB is limited to examining the patient under anesthesia and imaging technique.
@highlight Exosomes from the two RB cell lines and the Muller glial cell line were subjected to small RNA sequencing.
@highlight A total of 9 miRNAs were validated in the cell lines and cell line derived exosomes.
@highlight Two of the highly expressed RB specific miRNAs were significantly upregulated in 17 primary RB tissues.
@highlight Validation in serum exosomes did not yield any significant results. hsa miR 301b 3p showed expression in vitreous.
