 Exosomes secreted by microglia have been found to play a role in neurovascular unit injury under the ischemic hypoxic state . However the modulatory effect of exosomes shuttled miRNAs produced by microglia in endothelial cells remains undefined . Here an oxygen glucose deprivation model was constructed both in microglia and brain microvascular endothelial cells . The exosomes secreted by microglia were isolated and the exosomal miRNA profile was detected . Next gain and loss functions of miR 424 5p one of the most differentially expressed miRNAs in microglia derived exosomes were conducted in BMEC . The results demonstrated that exosomes from OGD activated microglia aggravated OGD induced BMEC viability and integrity damage as well as the loss of vascular formation . While the damaging effects were markedly attenuated by inhibiting miR 424 5p . In addition miR 424 5p overexpression significantly aggravated OGD induced BMEC damage and permeability . Mechanistically bioinformatics analysis indicated that miR 424 5p targeted the FGF2 mediated STAT3 signaling pathway which was verified via dual luciferase activity assay and RIP experiment . Furthermore in vivo experiments in the middle cerebral artery occlusion model mice were conducted . The results revealed that inhibition of miR 424 5p markedly reduced neurological dysfunctions and endothelial cell injury induced by MCAO . The above results confirmed that exosomes from OGD activated microglia induced significant cell damage and permeability of BMEC in which the upregulated miR 424 5p in the exosomes functioned by regulating FGF2 STAT3 pathway .

@highlight Exosomes from OGD indudced microglia aggravated BMEC injury 
@highlight Inhibiting miR 424 5p shuttled in the microglial exosomes significantly ameliorated BMEC injury 
@highlight MiR 424 5p targeted FGF2 and inhibited FGF2mediated STAT3 signaling pathway 
@highlight Inhibition of miR 424 5p markedly reduced neurological dysfunctions and endothelial cell injury induced by MCAO.
