 Traumatic brain injury results in mitochondrial dysfunction and induction of lipid peroxidation . Lipid peroxidation derived neurotoxic aldehydes such as 4 HNE and acrolein bind to mitochondrial proteins inducing additional oxidative damage and further exacerbating mitochondrial dysfunction and LP . Mitochondria are heterogeneous consisting of both synaptic and non synaptic populations with synaptic mitochondria being more vulnerable to injury dependent consequences . The goal of these studies was to explore the hypothesis that interrupting secondary oxidative damage following TBI using phenelzine an aldehyde scavenger would preferentially protect synaptic mitochondria against LP mediated damage in a dose and time dependent manner . Male Sprague Dawley rats received a severe controlled cortical impact TBI . PZ was administered subcutaneously at different times post injury . We found PZ treatment preserves both synaptic and non synaptic mitochondrial bioenergetics at 24h and that this protection is partially maintained out to 72h post injury using various dosing regimens . The results from these studies indicate that the therapeutic window for the first dose of PZ is likely within the first hour after injury and the window for administration of the second dose seems to fall between 12 and 24h . Administration of PZ was able to significantly improve mitochondrial respiration compared to vehicle treated animals across various states of respiration for both the non synaptic and synaptic mitochondria . The synaptic mitochondria appear to respond more robustly to PZ treatment than the non synaptic and further experimentation will need to be done to further understand these effects in the context of TBI .

@highlight Phenelzine an effective pharmacological strategy against oxidative damage post TBI
@highlight PZ mediated protection against non synaptic and synaptic mitochondrial dysfunction
@highlight PZ protects against aldehyde mediated damage to non synaptic synaptic mitochondria
@highlight Importance of timing dosing for pharmacological neuro mito protective strategies
