 The Lebers hereditary optic neuropathy is a rare disease caused by mitochondrial DNA mutations . Beside primary mutations the effect of secondary mtDNA mutations in still unclear . We examined the effect of secondary mtDNA mutations on secondary structure of different mitochondrial RNAs . Whole mitochondrial genome sequence of LHON patients has been obtained from in six non related pedigrees by Sanger sequencing method . The effect of mutations located in mitochondrial RNA genes was examined by creating in silico models of RNA secondary and regional 3D structure accompanied by sequence conservation analysis . All three primary LHON mutations were revealed in study families . Four mutations in MT RNR1 gene were identified and only an m.1555A G causes significant changes of secondary structure of mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA while it is the only mutation which does not alter its 3D structure . Five mutations were discovered in MT RNR2 gene and all of them induced substantial alterations of mitochondrial 16S rRNA secondary structure . Significant changes of mitochondrial 16S rRNA 3D structure are caused by m.1811A G m.2706A G m.3010G A and m.3197T C. A single insertion variant has been found in the MT TP gene which encodes mitochondrial transfer RNA for Proline . This mutation does not cause substantial changes of tRNA for Proline secondary structure while the 3D geometry remains without major changes . Most of the mutation loci exhibited high level of sequence conservation . Presence of multiple mutations in a single family appears to cause more extensive changes in mitochondrial 12S and 16S rRNA then their individual influence . The effect of discovered mutations on in silico modelled RNA structure is in a significant correlation with the present knowledge about the potential of these mutation to participate in the pathophysiology of LHON and other human diseases . The presence of certain multiple mitochondrial RNA mutations could be a possible explanation of LHON clinical presentation in some families . All revealed mutations have been evaluated for the first time in terms of in silico structural modelling . The application of bioinformatics tools such as secondary and 3D RNA structure prediction can have a great advantage in better understanding of the molecular standpoint of the LHON pathophysiology and clinical phenotype .

@highlight LHON patients have secondary mutations of mitochondrial RNA genes.
@highlight Some mutations significantly influence secondary and 3D structure of mitochondrial RNAs.
@highlight There is a correlation between structural rRNA changes and mutations pathogenicity.
@highlight Effect of described mutations was modeled for the first time in this study.
@highlight Clinical management of LHON can benefit from basic research.
