 The Descemet s membrane and the lens capsule are two ocular basement membranes that are essential in maintaining stability and structure of the cornea and lens . In this study we investigated the proteomes and biomechanical properties of these two materials to uncover common and unique properties . We also screened for possible protein changes during diabetes . LC MS MS was used to determine the proteomes of both BMs . Biomechanical measurements were conducted by atomic force microscopy in force spectroscopy mode and complemented with immunofluorescence microscopy . Proteome analysis showed that all six existing collagen IV chains represent 70 of all LC protein and are thus the dominant components of the LC . The DM on the other hand is predominantly composed of a single protein TGF induced protein which accounted for around 50 of all DM protein . Four collagen IV family members in DM accounted for only 10 of the DM protein . Unlike the retinal vascular BMs the LC and DM do not undergo significant changes in their protein compositions during diabetes . Nanomechanical measurements showed that the endothelial epithelial sides of both BMs are stiffer than their respective stromal anterior chamber sides and both endothelial and stromal sides of the DM were stiffer than the epithelial and anterior chamber sides of the LC . Long term diabetes did not change the stiffness of the DM and LC . In summary our analyses show that the protein composition and biomechanical properties of the DM and LC are different

@highlight Using mass pectrometry the protein composition of the lens capsule LC and the Descemet s membrane DM was determined.
@highlight Atomic Force Microscopy was utilized to investigate the biomechanical properties of the LC and the DM.
@highlight The protein composition of the LC and DM show significant differences.
@highlight The DM is stiffer than the LC.
@highlight The protein composition and the stiffness of DM and LC do not change following long term diabetes.
