 Degenerative ocular disorders like age related macular degeneration are associated with long term pro inflammatory signals on retinal pigment epithelial cells . In this study we investigated the effect of long term treatment of RPE cells with agonists of toll like receptor 3 TLR 4 and the pro inflammatory cytokine TNF . All tests were conducted with primary porcine RPE . Cells were stimulated with Poly I C LPS or TNF for 1 day 7 days or 4 weeks . Cell viability tests were additionally tested in ARPE 19cells . Cytokine secretion was tested in ELISA phagocytosis in a microscopic assay and expression of RPE65 in Western blot . Barrier function was tested in transwell cultured cells by measuring transepithelial resistance for up to 3 days . LPS and TNF significantly reduce cell viability after 1 day and 7 days Poly I C after 7 days and 4 weeks . LPS Poly I C and TNF significantly induce the secretion of IL 6 and IL 8 at all tested time points . IL 1 is increased by LPS and Poly I C after 1 day but not by TNF . TNF secretion is increased by Poly I C and LPS after 1 day but not at later time points . TGF secretion is not influenced by any stimulus . Concerning RPE function LPS decreased phagocytosis after 7 days while Poly I C and TNF showed no effect . RPE65 expression was strongly reduced by TNF and LPS after 4 weeks . Wound healing capacity was reduced by Poly I C but induced by LPS after 7d and 4 w. Barrier function was not affected by Poly I C or LPS while TNF reduced barrier function after 1h 4h and 3 days . Long term pro inflammatory stimuli reduce RPE viability barrier properties and cellular function and induce pro inflammatory cytokines and therefore may contribute directly to atrophic changes in AMD .

@highlight Long term activation of TLR 3 may reduce RPE viability.
@highlight Long term pro inflammatory stimulation favors IL 8 and IL 6 secretion over IL 1 and TNF.
@highlight TNF impedes RPE barrier function.
@highlight Long term stimulation with LPS or TNF reduces RPE65 expression in primary RPE.
