 Cognitive dysfunction is one of the most disabling non motor symptoms of Parkinson s disease though its pathological correlates still remain elusive . Hippocampal Lewy pathology has recently been correlated by compelling evidence from post mortem and imaging studies . Animal models recapitulating cognitive impairment in PD are essential to better understand the underlying pathophysiology . To investigate the hippocampal involvement in cognitive dysfunction of PD we generated an experimental model by inducing midbrain and hippocampal synuclein pathology simultaneously . Rats were injected either with human synuclein or green fluorescent protein expressing adeno associated viral vectors or saline bilaterally into substantia nigra and dentate gyrus . A group of untreated animals were used as nave controls . Cognitive and behavioral changes were evaluated with tests probing for spatial learning short term memory anxiety and hedonistic behavior . Immunohistochemical staining immunoblotting and stereological analysis were performed for pathological characterization . Bilateral synuclein overexpression in SN and DG led to mild but significant motor impairment as well as dysfunctions in short term memory and spatial learning . There was no hedonistic deficit whereas a hypo anxious state was induced . While stereological analysis revealed no significant neuronal loss in any sectors of cornu ammonis there was considerable decrease in TH Bilateral synuclein overexpression in DG and SN reproduced partial motor and hippocampus related cognitive deficits . Using this model we showed a predisposition of CA2 for pathological synuclein accumulation which may provide further insights for future experimental and clinical studies .

@highlight rAAV5 h synuclein injected bilaterally both into substantia nigra and dentate gyrus.
@highlight  Synuclein overexpressing animals showed mild but significant motor and cognitive impairments.
@highlight  Synuclein overexpression lead to TH
@highlight  neuronal loss in SN with decreased synaptophysin levels in striatum.
@highlight Despite no significant neuronal loss in hippocampus decreased synaptophysin levels suggested synaptic degeneration.
@highlight Among hippocampal subregions CA2 was the most affected area with dense p Ser129 synuclein accumulation.
