 The present study was designed to investigate the potential role and the mechanism of equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 on neuronal apoptosis and neurological deficits after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats . One hundred and thirty four male Sprague Dawley rats were subjected to two hours of MCAO followed by reperfusion . The time course of the expression level of ENT1 and phosphorylation of CREB were detected by western blot and immunofluorescence staining . Another set of animals were administrated with NBTI the ENT1 inhibitor by daily intraperitoneal injection starting at 0.5h post MCAO infarction volume and neurological deficits were measured both at 24h and 72h post MCAO . We further explored the neuroprotection machenism by using H89 cAMP dependent protein kinase inhibitor the expression of Bcl 2 Bax phosphorylated CREB and Cleaved caspase 3 were quantified by Western blot neuronal apoptosis were analyed by TUNEL staining . The endogenous expression of ENT1 were significantly increased and peaked at 12h after MCAO . High dose of NBTI reduced brain infarction volume and improved neurologic deficits both at 24h and 72h post MCAO . Moreover NBTI significantly increased the level of CREB phosphorylation and extracellular adenosine concentration and decreased the neuronal apoptosis 24h after MCAO . NBTI treatment reduced the expression of Bax and cleaved caspase 3 while up regulated Bcl 2 compared with vehicle group . These effects were abolished by H89 pretreatment . ENT1 inhibition prevented neuronal apoptosis and improves neurological deficits through cAMP PKA CREB Bcl 2 signaling pathway after MCAO in rats . ENT1 might be an effective target in the treatment strategy for ischemic stroke .

@highlight The expression time course of equilibrative nucleoside transporter ENT1 after MCAO in rats
@highlight ENT1 inhibitior NBTI 15 mg kg reduced infarct volume and improved neurological function 24 and 72 hours after MCAO
@highlight NBTI treatment reversed the depletion of extracellular adenosine concentration and CREB phosphorylation after MCAO
@highlight NBTI treatment prevented neural apoptosis though the cAMP pCREB Bcl2 signal pathway
