 Claudin 19 is the major claudin in the tight junctions of the retinal pigment epithelium . Claudin 3 is also uniformly expressed albeit in lesser amounts . Besides modulating transepithelial diffusion claudins modulate gene expression . The absence of claudin 19 and claudin 3 in the RPE cell lines ARPE 19 and hTERT RPE 1 provide an opportunity to examine whether exogenous claudins regulate gene expression in the absence of tight junctions . Quantitative RT PCR was used to compare gene expression in ARPE 19 and hTERT RPE 1 with that of highly differentiated human fetal RPE . Claudin 19 and claudin 3 were exogenously expressed using an adenoviral vector . The transepithelial electrical resistance was measured using Endohm electrodes and the effects of claudin on the actin cytoskeleton were determined by immunocytochemistry . The effect of claudin on gene expression was examined by quantitative RT PCR and western blotting . Aside from claudin 19 and claudin 3 ARPE 19 and hTERT RPE 1 expressed most junction associated mRNAs in amounts comparable to human fetal RPE but some RPE signature and maturation genes were under expressed . Unlike ARPE 19 hTERT RPE 1 failed to form tight junctions or develop a TER . Claudins exogenously expressed in hTERT RPE 1 failed to crystalize an apical junctional complex . Actin filaments were not redistributed from stress fibers to cortical bands and a TER was not established . In hTERT RPE 1 claudins were found only in internal vesicular like structures . Nonetheless claudins increased the expression of the mRNAs for a collection of RPE enriched proteins . Claudin 19 and claudin 3 had different effects on gene and protein expression indicating activation of overlapping but distinct signaling pathways . A major difference was the ability of claudin 19 to affect steady state levels of ADAM9 and tyrosinase in ARPE 19 . In conclusion claudins can increase the barrier function of a pre existing apical junctional complex but on its own it can not recruit tight junction proteins to form a complex

@highlight We expressed claudin 19 and claudin 3 in two human RPE cell lines that lack it ARPE 19 and hTERT RPE 1.
@highlight The formation of tight junctions was accelerated in ARPE 19 but tight junctions did not form in hTERT RPE 1.
@highlight There were distinct effects on gene expression even though there is no apical junctional complex in hTERT RPE 1.
@highlight Despite increased mRNA claudin 19 suppressed the steady state levels of the proteins for
@highlight and
@highlight in ARPE 19.
