 Diabetic retinopathy is triggered by retinal cell damage stimulated by the diabetic milieu including increased levels of intraocular free fatty acids . Free fatty acids may serve as an initiator of inflammatory cytokine release from Mller cells and the resulting cytokines are potent stimulators of retinal endothelial pathology such as leukostasis vascular permeability and basement membrane thickening . Our previous studies have elucidated a role for peroxisome proliferator activated receptor in promoting several steps in the pathologic cascade in DR including angiogenesis and expression of inflammatory mediators . Furthermore PPAR is a known target of lipid signaling suggesting a potential role for this transcription factor in fatty acid induced retinal inflammation . Therefore we hypothesized that PPAR stimulates both the induction of inflammatory mediators by Mller cells as well the paracrine induction of leukostasis in endothelial cells by Mller cell inflammatory products . To test this we used the PPAR inhibitor GSK0660 in primary human Mller cells human retinal microvascular endothelial cells and mouse retina . We found that palmitic acid activation of PPAR in HMC leads to the production of pro angiogenic and or inflammatory cytokines that may constitute DR relevant upstream paracrine inflammatory signals to EC and other retinal cells . Downstream EC transduce these signals and increase their synthesis and release of chemokines such as CCL8 and CXCL10 that regulate leukostasis and other cellular events related to vascular inflammation in DR. Our results indicate that PPAR inhibition mitigates these upstream as well as downstream inflammatory signaling events elicited by metabolic stimuli and inflammatory cytokines . Therefore our data suggest that PPAR inhibition is a potential therapeutic strategy against early DR pathology .

@highlight The PPAR inhibitor GSK0660 inhibits palmitic acid stimulated inflammatory mediator production by Mller cells.
@highlight GSK0660 inhibits TNF induced leukocyte adhesion in both HRMEC and mouse retina.
@highlight GSK0660 blocks TNF induced leukostasis by modulating the levels of CCL8 and CXCL10.
@highlight GSK0660 s effects on retinal cells are mediated by both PPAR dependent and PPAR independent pathways.
