 Accumulation of lipofuscin deposits in the retinal pigment epithelium is one of the main events involved in age related macular degeneration and its increase together with RPE dysfunction blood retinal barrier disruption and photoreceptors death progressively leads to blindness . Lipofuscin is the main autofluorescent component of the retina and therapies to counteract its deposition are a main goal to be achieved since effective treatments have not yet been identified . Here we first investigated the spatio temporal pattern of AF deposits accumulation in the light damage model of age related macular degeneration . Afterward we tested the ability of cerium oxide nanoparticles a well known anti oxidant agent to counteract AF granules accumulation . The treatment was performed both before and after the induction of the degeneration . AF granules were quantified by confocal microscopy on whole mounted retinas . We demonstrated that the acute light damage increases the accumulation of AF deposits in the hot spot retina in terms of number of granules and percentage of occupied area with a peak 7 days after the exposure . Remarkably cerium oxide nanoparticles showed a strong efficacy in preventing the formation of AF deposits when they were injected 3 days before light exposure . Moreover when the treatment was performed 7 days after light exposure nanoceria activity was found to be effective also in reducing the amount of the AF granules still deposited up to 60 days . These important results represent the very first evidence about the ability of cerium oxide nanoparticles to counteract AF deposits accumulation in retinal degeneration laying the foundations for the development of a new therapy possibly targeting lipofuscin in AMD .

@highlight Acute light damage induces massive autofluorescence deposits accumulation in the rat retina.
@highlight Preventive treatment with nanoceria inhibits autofluorescence deposits accumulation.
@highlight Nanoceria promote removal of retinal autofluorescence deposits.
