 Previously we developed TAT N24 as a synthetic cell permeable peptide inhibitor of p55PIK signaling and demonstrated its anti inflammatory effects . This study aimed to evaluate the potential of TAT N24 as a new agent for the treatment of ocular inflammatory diseases . The endotoxin induced uveitis model was established by intravitreal injection of lipopolysaccharide in BALB c mice and experimental autoimmune uveitis model was established by subcutaneous injection of a peptide spanning amino acid residues 161180 of interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein with complete Freund s adjuvant in B10.RIII mice . TAT N24 was topically administered in EIU model and intraperitoneally administered in EAU model . The severity levels of uveitis were assessed by clinical and histopathological scores . The mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines in iris ciliary body and retina were analyzed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction . The protein levels of inflammatory factors were determined by ELISA or Western blotting . The results showed that TAT N24 alleviated clinical signs decreased inflammatory cell infiltration and the expression of inflammatory cytokines in both EIU and EAU models . Furthermore protein levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha interleukin 1 and interleukin 6 in aqueous humor and mRNA and protein levels of NF B p65 in the ICB significantly decreased in EIU model . In EAU model TAT N24 application induced a significant decrease of IFN gamma and interleukin 17 in the retina which were secreted by Th1 and Th17cells respectively . In conclusion TAT N24 suppressed intraocular inflammation in both EIU and EAU models and the anti inflammatory effects were mediated by suppressing the expression of inflammatory cytokines by PI3K NF B signaling pathway . TAT N24 could be potential candidate for the treatment of ocular inflammatory diseases .

@highlight TAT N24 is a synthetic cell permeable peptide inhibitor of p55PIK signaling.
@highlight Topical administration of TAT N24 alleviated acute ocular inflammation in EIU model.
@highlight Intraperitoneal injection of TAT N24 alleviated chronic ocular inflammation in EAU model.
@highlight TAT N24 alleviated ocular inflammation by suppressing the production of inflammatory cytokines.
@highlight Anti inflammatory effects of TAT N24 were mediated by inhibiting NF B activation.
