 After spinal cord injury the inhibitory molecules derived from scars at the lesion sites and the limited regenerative capacity of neuronal axons pose difficulties for the recovery after SCI . Remodeling of cytoskeleton structures including microtubule assembly and tubulin post translational modification are widely accepted to play a crucial role in initiation of growth cone and regrowth of injured axon . Although increasing studies have focused on the association between tubulin acetylation and autophagy due to the role of tubulin acetylation in organelles and substances transport there are no studies exploring the effect of tubulin acetylation on autophagy after spinal cord injury . Here we found that histone deacetylase 6 was significantly up regulated after SCI while inhibition of HDAC6 by Tubastatin A induced functional recovery after SCI . In view of enzyme dependent and independent mechanisms of HDAC6 to adjust diverse cellular processes such as autophagy the ubiquitin proteasome system and post translational modification of tubulin we mainly focused on the significance of HDAC6 in axonal regeneration and autophagy after SCI . Western blotting Co immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining were conducted to showed that Tubastatin A treatment in nocodazole treated cells and mice suffering from SCI prompted acetylation and stabilization of microtubules and thus restored transport function which may contribute to restored autophagic flux and increased axonal length . Whereas inhibition of degradation of autolysosomes by bafilomycin A1 reversed functional recovery caused by Tubastatin A revealing the association between tubulin acetylation and autophagy which supports HDAC6 inhibition as a potential target for SCI treatment .

@highlight HDAC6 can affect microtubule system function by deacetylating tubulin.
@highlight Decreased acetylation level of Tubulin induces axonal transport dysfunction.
@highlight Inhibition of HDAC6 by Tubastatin A restores autophagic flux after SCI.
@highlight Inhibition of HDAC6 by Tubastatin A promotes functional recovery after SCI.
