 Respiratory motor neuron survival is critical for maintenance of adequate ventilation and airway clearance preventing dependence to mechanical ventilation and respiratory tract infections . Phrenic motor neurons are highly vulnerable in rodent models of motor neuron disease versus accessory inspiratory motor pools . Thus strategies that promote phrenic motor neuron survival when faced with disease and or toxic insults are needed to help preserve breathing ability airway defense and ventilator independence . Adenosine 2A receptors are emerging as a potential target to promote neuroprotection although their activation can have both beneficial and pathogenic effects . Since the role of A2A receptors in the phrenic motor neuron survival death is not known we tested the hypothesis that A2A receptor antagonism promotes phrenic motor neuron survival and preserves diaphragm function when faced with toxic neurodegenerative insults that lead to phrenic motor neuron death . We utilized a novel neurotoxic model of respiratory motor neuron death recently developed in our laboratory intrapleural injections of cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to the ribosomal toxin saporin . We demonstrate that intrapleural CtB Saporin causes 1 profound phrenic motor neuron death 2 7 fold increase in phrenic motor neuron A2A receptor expression prior to cell death and 3 diaphragm muscle paralysis . The A2A receptor antagonist istradefylline given after CtB Saporin 1 reduced phrenic motor neuron death and 2 preserved diaphragm EMG activity . Thus A2A receptors contribute to neurotoxic phrenic motor neuron death an effect mitigated by A2A receptor antagonism .

@highlight Intrapleural cholera toxin beta subunit CtB conjugated saporin administration causes toxic phrenic motor neuron death.
@highlight Intrapleural CtB Saporin causes upregulation of neuronal A2A receptors prior to phrenic motor neuron death.
@highlight A2A receptor inhibition protects phrenic motor neurons from death and preserves diaphragm activity.
