 Obstructive sleep apnea a chronic sleep disorder characterized by repetitive reduction or cessation of airflow during sleep is widely prevalent and is associated with adverse neurocognitive sequelae including increased risk of Alzheimer s disease . In humans OSA is more common in elderly males . OSA is characterized by sleep fragmentation and chronic intermittent hypoxia and recent epidemiological studies point to CIH as the best predictor of neurocognitive sequelae associated with OSA . The sex and age specific effects of OSA associated CIH on specific cell populations such as aminobutyric acid ergic neurons in the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex regions important for cognitive function remain largely unknown . The present study examined the effect of 35days of either moderate or severe CIH on GABAergic neurons in the mPFC and hippocampus of young and aged male and female mice as well as post accelerated ovarian failure female mice . In the mPFC and hippocampus the number of GABA labeled neurons increased in aged and young severe CIH males compared to controls but not in young moderate CIH males . This change was not representative of the individual GABAergic cell subpopulations as the number of parvalbumin labeled neurons decreased while the number of somatostatin labeled neurons increased in the hippocampus of severe CIH young males only . In all female groups the number of GABA labeled cells was not different between CIH and controls . However in the mPFC CIH increased the number of parvalbumin labeled neurons in young females and the number of somatostatin labeled cells in AOF females but decreased the number of somatostatin labeled cells in aged females . In the hippocampus CIH decreased the number of somatostatin labeled neurons in young females . CIH decreased the density of vesicular GABA transporter in the mPFC of AOF females only . These findings suggest sex specific changes in GABAergic neurons in the hippocampus and mPFC with males showing an increase of this cell population as compared to their female counterparts following CIH . Age at exposure and severity of CIH also differentially affect the GABAergic cell population in mice .

@highlight Age and hypoxia severity increase neuronal GABA labeling in male mice.
@highlight Female mice show no changes in GABA labeling following chronic intermittent hypoxia.
@highlight In young hypoxic mice DG somatostatin increased in males and decreased in females.
@highlight Vesicular GABA transporter was affected in accelerated ovarian failure females only.
@highlight These sex differences might have important implications for clinical OSA patients.
