 Optic nerve head neuroretinal rim thickness quantified as minimum rim width is a sensitive measure for assessing early glaucomatous disease . The BMO MRW is sensitive to transient fluctuations in intraocular pressure but the time course over which BMO MRW decreases and recovers with changes in IOP remains unknown . The goal of this study was to investigate the dynamics of BMO MRW changes over 2 h periods of mild or moderate IOP elevation and subsequent recovery in healthy non human primate eyes . Eight non human primates were included in the study . For each animal in two different sessions separated by at least 2 weeks the anterior chamber IOP of one eye was maintained at either 25mmHg or 40mmHg for 2h and subsequently at 10mmHg for 2h . For the duration of anterior chamber cannulation optical coherence tomography radial scans centered on the ONH were acquired every 5min and used to quantify BMO MRW . An exponential decay or rise to maximum function was used to determine the extent and rate of structural change . Additionally Bruch s membrane opening area BMO height displacement and BMO referenced anterior lamina cribrosa surface depth were computed from radial scans . A circular scan was used to quantify retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and circumpapillary choroid thickness . The primary results demonstrated that the BMO MRW changed over an extended duration while BMO displacement was rapid and remained stable with sustained IOP . The mean maximum predicted BMO MRW thinning following 2h of IOP elevation was significantly related to pressure . The half life for BMO MRW thinning was 21.99.2min for 25mmHg and 20.94.2min for 40mmHg not significantly different between IOP levels . Subsequently after 2h of IOP at 10mmHg all animals exhibited partial recovery of BMO MRW with similar degrees of persistent residual thinning for the two IOP levels . Similar to BMO MRW choroid thickness exhibited gradual thinning with IOP elevation and residual thinning following IOP reduction . However there was no significant change in BMO area or BMO ALCSD in either experimental session . The RNFLT gradually decreased over the duration of IOP elevation with continued decreases following IOP reduction for the 40mmHg session resulting in total changes from baseline of 2.240.81 and 2.451.21m for 25 and 40mmHg respectively . The sum of the results demonstrate that the ONH neural tissue is sensitive to changes in IOP the effects of which are gradual over an extended time course and different for increased vs. decreased pressure . Understanding the duration over which IOP influences BMO MRW has important implications for studies investigating the effects of IOP on the ONH . Additionally individual variability in ONH response to IOP may improve our understanding of the risk and progression of disease .

@highlight Changes in intraocular pressure result in rapid changes in the neuroretinal rim.
@highlight The neuroretinal rim continues to change over a period of 2h with sustained IOP.
@highlight Residual thinning of the neuroretinal rim persists after 2h of IOP reduction.
@highlight There is individual variability in the rate and extent of rim tissue thinning.
