 Strong communication and interaction between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptor cells is essential for vision . RPE cells are essential for supporting and maintaining PR cells by transporting nutrients waste products and ions and phagocytosing photoreceptor outer segments . POS phagocytosis follows a circadian pattern taking place in the morning in human mice and other organisms . However it remains unknown whether other RPE processes follow a daily rhythm . To study the daily rhythm of RPE cells we isolated murine RPE cells at six different time points during a 24h period after which RNA was isolated and sequenced . Murine RPE flatmounts were isolated at four different time points to study daily rhythm in protein abundance and localisation . EnrichR pathway analysis resulted in 13 significantly enriched KEGG pathways of which seven showed a large number of overlapping genes . Several genes were involved in intracellular trafficking possibly playing a role in nutrient transport POS phagocytosis or membrane protein trafficking with different expression patterns during the day night cycle . Other genes were involved in actin cytoskeleton building remodelling and crosslinking and showed a high expression in the morning suggesting actin cytoskeleton remodelling at this time point . Finally tight junction proteins Cldn2 and Cldn4 showed a difference in RNA and protein expression and tight junction localisation over time . Our study suggests that several important processes in the RPE follow a day night rhythm including intracellular trafficking and processes involving the actin cytoskeleton and tight junctions . The differential protein localisation of Cldn2 in the RPE during the day night cycle suggest that Cldn2 may facilitate paracellular water and sodium transport during the day .

@highlight Cldn2 RNA and protein expression show clear differences over time in RPE cells.
@highlight Paracellular water and sodium transport in RPE might be facilitated by Cldn2 during the day.
@highlight Genes involved in intracellular trafficking show differential day night expression.
@highlight Genes involved in cytoskeleton remodelling show high expression in the morning.
