 Vasospasm and delayed cerebral ischemia contribute significantly to the morbidity mortality associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage . While considerable research effort has focused on preventing or reversing vasospasm SAH induced brain injury occurs in response to a multitude of concomitantly acting pathophysiologic mechanisms . In this regard the pleiotropic epigenetic responses to conditioning based therapeutics may provide an ideal SAH therapeutic strategy . We previously documented the ability of hypoxic preconditioning to attenuate vasospasm and neurological deficits after SAH in a manner that depends on the activity of endothelial nitric oxide synthase . The present study was undertaken to elucidate whether the NAD dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin isoform SIRT1 is an upstream mediator of hypoxic PC induced protection and to assess the efficacy of the SIRT1 activating polyphenol Resveratrol as a pharmacologic preconditioning therapy . Wild type C57BL 6J mice were utilized in the study and subjected to normoxia or hypoxic PC . Surgical procedures included induction of SAH via endovascular perforation or sham surgery . Multiple endpoints were assessed including cerebral vasospasm neurobehavioral deficits SIRT1 expression via quantitative real time PCR for mRNA and western blot for protein quantification . Pharmacological agents utilized in the study include EX 527 and Resveratrol . Hypoxic PC leads to rapid and sustained increase in cerebral SIRT1 mRNA and protein expression . SIRT1 inhibition blocks the protective effects of hypoxic PC on vasospasm and neurological deficits . Resveratrol pretreatment dose dependently abrogates vasospasm and attenuates neurological deficits following SAH beneficial effects that were similarly blocked by pharmacologic inhibition of SIRT1 . SIRT1 mediates hypoxic preconditioning induced protection against neurovascular dysfunction after SAH . Resveratrol mimics this neurovascular protection at least in part via SIRT1 . Activation of SIRT1 is a promising novel pleiotropic therapeutic strategy to combat DCI after SAH .

@highlight Hypoxic preconditioning protects against deficits after subarachnoid hemorrhage.
@highlight Hypoxic preconditioning induces robust upregulation of SIRT1.
@highlight SIRT1 mediates hypoxic preconditioning induced protection in subarachnoid hemorrhage.
@highlight Resveratrol mimics preconditioning induced protection in subarachnoid hemorrhage.
