 Preclinical imaging especially of rodent models plays a major role in experimental ophthalmology . Our aim was to determine if ultrasound can be used to visualize and measure flow dynamics in the retrobulbar vessels supplying and draining the eye and the potential of contrast microbubbles to provide image and measurement enhancement . To accomplish this we used a 128 element 18MHz linear array ultrasound probe and performed plane wave imaging of the eyes of Sprague Dawley rats . Compound images were acquired by emitting unfocused wavefronts at multiple angles and combining echo data from all angles to form individual B scans . Multiple imaging sequences were utilized compounding up to six angles with imaging rate of up to 3000 compound B scans per second and sequence durations from 1.5 to 180s . Data were acquired before and after intravenous introduction of contrast microbubbles . We found the total power of the Doppler signal in the image plane to increase approximately 20 fold after injection of contrast followed by an exponential decay to baseline in about 90s The best fit time constant of the decay averaged 41s . While major vessels and the retinal choroidal complex were evident pre contrast they were dramatically enhanced with contrast present with details such as choroidal arterioles seen only with contrast . Ocular arteriovenous transit time determined from comparative enhancement curves in arteries and veins was approximately 0.2s . In conclusion plane wave ultrasound especially with enhancement by contrast microbubbles offers a means for the study of ocular hemodynamics using the rat eye as a model .

@highlight Blood flow in the retrobulbar vessels of the rat eye was visualized using plane wave ultrasound.
@highlight Spectrograms allowed determination of arterial and venous velocities over the cardiac cycle.
@highlight Intravenous contrast microbubbles enhanced visualization of blood flow.
@highlight After initial peak contrast enhancement declined exponentially.
@highlight Tail vein to eye and arteriovenous ocular transit time were measured.
