 Astrocytic Yes associated protein has been implicated in astrocytic proliferation and differentiation in the developing neocortex . However the role of astrocytic YAP in diseases of the nervous system remains poorly understood . Here we hypothesized that astrocytic YAP exerted a neuroprotective effect against cerebral ischemic injury in rats by regulating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling . In this study we investigated whether the expression of nuclear YAP in the astrocytes of rats increased significantly after middle cerebral artery occlusion and its effect on cerebral ischemic injury . We used XMU MP 1 to trigger localization of YAP into the nucleus and found that XMU MP 1 treatment decreased ischemia stroke induced brain injury including reduced neuronal death and reactive astrogliosis and extenuated release of interleukin 1 interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor . Mechanically XMU MP 1 treatment suppressed the expression of phospho STAT3 . We established an in vitro oxygen glucose deprivation reperfusion model to simulate an ischemic condition and further explore the function of astrocytic YAP . We found that nuclear translocation of astrocytic YAP in rats could improve cell vitality decrease the release of inflammatory cytokines and reduce the expression of P STAT3 in vitro . In contrast we also found that inhibition of YAP by verteporfin further aggravated the injury induced by OGD R via STAT3 signaling . In summary our results showed that nuclear localization of astrocytic YAP exerted a neuroprotective effect after cerebral ischemic injury in rats via inhibition of the STAT3 signaling .

@highlight There was an increase of nuclear YAP in astrocytes instead of neurons and microglia in response to ischemia stroke.
@highlight Astrocytic nuclear YAP was involved in cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury.
@highlight Nuclear localization of astrocytic YAP exerted a neuroprotective effect via inhibition of the STAT3 signaling.
@highlight YAP is a promising therapeutic target with protective effects against ischemia stroke.
