 Disruption of the blood brain barrier and subsequent cerebral edema formation is one of the major adverse effects of brain surgery leading to postoperative neurological dysfunction . Recently Mfsd2a has been shown to have a crucial role for the maintenance of BBB functions . In this study we aimed to evaluate the role of Mfsd2a on BBB disruption following surgical brain injury in rats . Rats were subjected to SBI by partial resection of the right frontal lobe . To evaluate the effect of Mfsd2a on BBB permeability and neurobehavior outcome following SBI Mfsd2a was either overexpressed or downregulated in the brain by administering Mfsd2a CRISPR activation or knockout plasmids respectively . The potential mechanism of Mfsd2a mediated BBB protection through the cav 1 Nrf 2 HO 1 signaling pathway was evaluated . Mfsd2a levels were significantly decreased while cav 1 Nrf 2 and HO 1 levels were increased in the right frontal perisurgical area following SBI . When overexpressed Mfsd2a attenuated brain edema and abolished neurologic impairment caused by SBI while downregulation of Mfsd2a expression further deteriorated BBB functions and worsened neurologic performance following SBI . The beneficial effect of Mfsd2a overexpression on BBB functions was associated with diminished expression of cav 1 increased Keap 1 Nrf 2 dissociation and further augmented levels of Nrf 2 and HO 1 in the right frontal perisurgical area leading to enhanced levels of tight junction proteins following SBI . The BBB protective effect of Mfsd2a was blocked by selective inhibitors of Nrf 2 and HO 1 . Mfsd2a attenuates BBB disruption through cav 1 Nrf 2 HO 1 signaling pathway in rats subjected to experimental SBI .

@highlight Mfsd2a levels decrease and contribute to the disruption of the BBB as well as worse neurologic outcomes following SBI.
@highlight Mfsd2a overexpression alleviates BBB dysfunction by decreasing TJP degradation and improves neurologic outcome after SBI.
@highlight Protective effect of Mfsd2a on BBB following SBI is at least partly mediated through Cav 1 Nrf 2 HO 1 pathway.
