 Transient intraocular pressure elevations are likely to occur in certain forms of glaucoma and after intravitreal injections to treat various retinal diseases . However the impact of these transient IOP elevations on the physiology of individual retinal ganglion cells is unknown . In this report we explore how transient IOP elevations in mice affect RGC physiology RGC anatomy and retinal arteriole and capillary structure . Transient IOP elevation was induced in 12 week old wild type C57BL6J mice by injecting sodium hyaluronate into the anterior chamber . IOP was measured immediately after the injection and again 1 and 7 days later . Average peak IOP after injection was 50mmHg and subsequent IOPs returned to normal . RGC physiology was assessed with a multielectrode array by calculating a spike triggered average at the same time points . RGC counts and retinal vascular structure were assessed 14 days after injection with immunohistochemistry to label RGCs and blood vessels . Transient IOP elevation caused a marked reduction of scotopic STA presence and delayed center and surround STA peak times that did not recover . Transient IOP elevation also caused a reduced photopic receptive field size and spontaneous firing rate both of which showed some recovery with time . Transient IOP elevation also induced vascular remodeling the number of capillary branches was decreased within the superficial and intermediate vascular plexi . RGC counts retinal arteriole diameter and deep capillary plexus branching were unaffected . These previously unappreciated findings suggest that transient IOP elevation may cause unrecognized and potentially long term pathology to RGCs and associated neurovascular units which should be accounted for in clinical practice .

@highlight We transiently elevated IOP to high levels in mice.
@highlight We assessed RGCs function at three time points after IOP elevation.
@highlight We assessed retinal vascular anatomy and RGC numbers at one time point after IOP elevation.
@highlight Multiple aspects of RGC function were abnormal after IOP elevation and these had different patterns of recovery with time.
@highlight Specific retinal vascular plexi had reduced numbers of capillary branches.
