 How the absence of gravity affects the physiology of human beings is generating global research interest as space exploration including missions aboard the International Space Station continues to push boundaries . Here we examined changes in retinal microcirculation and visual electrophysiology in mice suspended by their tails to simulate the cephalad movement of blood that occurs under microgravity conditions . Tail suspension was performed with a head down tilt with a recommended angle of 30 . Mice in the control groups were similarly attached to a tether but could maintain a normal position . Morphologically the 15 day tail suspended mice showed retinal microvascular dilation tortuosity and a relatively long fluorescence retention however the average diameter of the major retinal vessels was not notably changed . In addition optical coherence tomography showed their optic nerve head had an increased diameter . However the mice could adapt to the change with microcirculation and the optic nerve head recovering following 30 day tail suspension . Expression of rhodopsin and cone opsins was not notably changed and no retinal apoptotic positive cells were detected between 15 and 30 day tail suspensions . Moreover the three experimental groups of suspended mice showed normal retinal layers and thickness . Functionally following 15 day tail suspension scotopic electroretinograms showed a decline in the oscillatory potentials but not in the b wave simultaneously the peak time of flash visual evoked potential component N

@highlight The effects of simulated microgravity on retinal microcirculation remain unknown.
@highlight The effect of simulated and real microgravity conditions on the optic nerve head is similar.
@highlight The changes in the electroretinograms may be related to abnormal retinal microcirculation.
@highlight However the changes are reversible with no permanent injury observed in the retina.
@highlight Retinal changes must be studied under simulated microgravity and other space like conditions.
