 This study was conducted to evaluate the impact of varying scleral material properties on the biomechanical response of the cornea under air puff induced deformation . Twenty pairs of human donor eyes were obtained for this study . One eye from each pair had its sclera stiffened using 4 glutaraldehyde while the fellow eye served as control for uniaxial strip testing . The whole globes were mounted in a rigid holder and intraocular pressure was set using a saline column . Dynamic corneal response parameters were measured before and after scleral stiffening using the CorVis ST a dynamic Scheimpflug analyzer . IOP was set to 10 20 30 and 40mmHg with at least 3 examinations performed at each pressure step . Uniaxial tensile testing data were fit to a neo Hookean model to estimate the Young s modulus of treated and untreated sclera . Scleral Young s modulus was found to be significantly correlated with several response parameters including Highest Concavity Deformation Amplitude Peak Distance Highest Concavity Radius and Stiffness Parameter Highest Concavity . There were significant increases in SP HC after scleral stiffening at multiple levels of IOP while no significant difference was observed in the corneal Stiffness Parameter Applanation 1 at any level of IOP . Scleral mechanical properties significantly influenced the corneal deformation response to an air puff . The stiffer the sclera the greater the constraining effect on corneal deformation resulting in lower displaced amplitude . This may have important clinical implications and suggests that both corneal and scleral material properties contribute to the observed corneal response in air puff induced deformation .

@highlight Highlight 1 Altering scleral stiffness significantly impacted corneal deformation response.
@highlight Highlight 2 Corneal deformation response is due to coupling of corneal and scleral properties.
@highlight Highlight 3 Highest Concavity response parameters may be sensitive to scleral changes.
