 The dopamine D2 like receptor agonist ropinirole is often used for early and middle stage Parkinson s disease . However this D2 like agonism based strategy has a complicating problem D2 like agonism may activate D2 autoreceptors on the residual DA neurons in the PD brain potentially inhibiting these residual DA neurons and motor function . We have examined this possibility by using systemic and local drug administration in transcription factor Pitx3 null mutant mice that mimic the DA denervation in early and middle stage PD and in DA neuron tyrosine hydroxylase gene knockout mice that mimic the severe DA loss in late stage PD . We found that in Pitx3Null mice with residual DA neurons and normal mice with normal DA system systemically injected ropinirole inhibited locomotion whereas bilateral dorsal striatal microinjected ropinirole stimulated movement in Pitx3Null mice bilateral microinjection of ropinirole into the ventral tegmental area also inhibited movement in Pitx3Null mice we further determined that ropinirole inhibited nigral DA neuron spike firing in WT mice . In contrast both systemically and striatum locally administered ropinirole increased movements in TH KO mice but produced relatively more dyskinesia than L dopa . Although requiring confirmation in non human primates and PD patients these data suggest that while activating D2 like receptors in striatal projection neurons and hence stimulating movements D2 like agonists can inhibit residual DA neurons and cause akinesia when the residual DA neurons and motor functions are still substantial and this motor inhibitory effect disappears when almost all DA neurons are lost such as in late stage PD .

@highlight Ropinirole is often used for early middle stage Parkinson s disease PD .
@highlight D2 like agonism may activate D2 autoreceptors on the residual dopamine neurons.
@highlight Systemic ropinirole inhibits motor activity in early middle stage PD mouse model.
@highlight Striatal ropinirole injection stimulates motor activity in same PD mouse model.
@highlight Systemic ropinirole stimulates motor activity in late stage PD mouse model.
