 Diabetic retinopathy is a neurovascular complication of diabetes mellitus that leads to blindness in the working age population . Retinal Mller cells proliferate and produce pro angiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor via the reactive oxygen species thioredoxin interacting protein NACHT LRR and PYD domain containing protein 3 inflammasome axis to promote proliferative DR. Epigallocatechin 3 gallate plays anti oxidant anti inflammatory anti proliferative and anti angiogenic roles in Mller cells . A prodrug of EGCG enhances the bioavailability of EGCG . In an in vitro model of high glucose stimulated Mller cells pro EGCG inhibited proliferation and pro angiogenic factor production by down regulating the activity of the ROS TXNIP NLRP3 inflammasome axis . In a mouse DR model pro EGCG reduced ROS accumulation NLRP3 inflammasome activation Mller cell proliferation and production of the pro angiogenic factors VEGF and HGF . In summary pro EGCG mitigated hyperglycaemia challenged Mller cell proliferation and pro angiogenic factor production by inhibiting ROS TXNIP NLRP3 inflammasome signalling implying a potential therapeutic strategy for DR .

@highlight Mller cells proliferate and produce pro angiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF and hepatocyte growth factor HGF via the reactive oxygen species ROS thioredoxin interacting protein TXNIP NACHT LRR and PYD domains containing protein 3 NLRP3 inflammasome axis to promote proliferative DR.
@highlight In an in vitro model of high glucose stimulated Mller cells pro EGCG inhibited proliferation and pro angiogenic factor production by downregulating ROS TXNIP NLRP3 inflammasome axis activity.
@highlight In a mouse DR model pro EGCG reduced ROS accumulation NLRP3 inflammasome activation Mller cell proliferation and production of the pro angiogenic factors VEGF and HGF.
@highlight Pro EGCG mitigated hyperglycaemia challenged Mller cell proliferation and pro angiogenic factor production by inhibiting ROS TXNIP NLRP3 inflammasome signalling.
