 Bio engineering technologies are currently used to produce biomimetic artificial corneas that should present structural chemical optical and biomechanical properties close to the native tissue . These properties are mainly supported by the corneal stroma which accounts for 90 of corneal thickness and is mainly made of collagen type I . The stromal collagen fibrils are arranged in lamellae that have a plywood like organization . The fibril diameter is between 25 and 35nm and the interfibrillar space about 57nm . The number of lamellae in the central stroma is estimated to be 300 . In the anterior part their size is 1040m . They appear to be larger in the posterior part of the stroma with a size of 60120m . Their thicknesses also vary from 0.2 to 2.5m . During development the acellular corneal stroma which features a complex pattern of organization serves as a scaffold for mesenchymal cells that invade and further produce the cellular stroma . Several pathways including Bmp4 Wnt catenin Notch retinoic acid and TGF in addition to EFTFs including the mastering gene Pax 6 are involved in corneal development . Besides retinoic acid and TGF seem to have a crucial role in the neural crest cell migration in the stroma . Several technologies can be used to produce artificial stroma . Taking advantage of the liquid crystal properties of acid soluble collagen it is possible to produce transparent stroma like matrices with native like collagen I fibrils and plywood like organization where epithelial cells can adhere and proliferate . Other approaches include the use of recombinant collagen cross linkers vitrification plastically compressed collagen or magnetically aligned collagen providing interesting optical and mechanical properties . These technologies can be classified according to collagen type and origin presence of telopeptides and native like fibrils structure and transparency . Collagen matrices feature transparency 80 for the appropriate 500 m thickness . Non collagenous matrices made of biopolymers including gelatin silk or fish scale have been developed which feature interesting properties but are less biomimetic . These bioengineered matrices still need to be colonized by stromal cells to fully reproduce the native stroma .

@highlight During development mesenchymal cells invade the organized acellular corneal stroma and further produce the cellular stroma.
@highlight Collagen liquid crystal properties permit producing transparent matrices with collagen I fibrils and plywood organization.
@highlight Other approaches include recombinant collagen cross linkers compressed collagen or magnetically aligned collagen.
@highlight Bioengineered matrices still need to be colonized by stromal cells to fully reproduce the native stroma.
