 The purpose of this study was to characterize and develop a primate model of chronic retinal neovascularization and vascular leakage that can be employed to assess efficacy of experimental therapeutics targeting retinal ischemic and neovascular diseases . African green monkeys received bilateral intravitreal injection of DL alpha aminoadipic acid following ophthalmic examination color fundus photography fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography . Imaging was repeated to evaluate progression and subsequent stabilization of retinal vascular pathology elicited by DLAAA . Aflibercept was administered IVT to assess effects on vascular leakage . Ocular tissue was collected for histopathology and glial fibrillary acidic protein von Willebrand Factor CD105 endoglin VEGF and CD68 immunohistochemistry to study retinal degeneration and vascular remodeling . IVT DLAAA administration resulted in telangiectatic vessel formation as early as two weeks post injection followed by retinal vascular leakage and inner retinal edema . Neovascular lesion progression was evident up to 810 weeks post injection before stabilizing into a vascular leakage state that persisted beyond 90 weeks . Histopathology and immunostaining revealed retinal degeneration and neovascularization increased expression of vWF CD105 endoglin VEGF and CD68 immunoreactivities in addition to Mller cell loss . Aflibercept significantly attenuated vascular leakage for 24 weeks before progressive return of leakage from weeks 48 . Lesions remained responsive to anti VEGF administration at 90 weeks after DLAAA injection . Findings support application of the primate DLAAA induced retinal vascular leakage model for efficacy evaluations of candidate therapeutics and sustained release strategies targeting exudative AMD diabetic retinopathy macular telangiectasia and other retinal ischemic and neovascular diseases . Findings confirm relevance of the DLAAA primate phenotype to understanding shared retinal vascular disease mechanisms and macular susceptibility to vascular and metabolic insults .

@highlight DL 2 aminoadipic acid DLAAA induces chronic retinal vascular leakage in primates.
@highlight DLAAA induces retinal neovascularization and edema followed by atrophy.
@highlight Vascular leakage responds to anti VEGF therapy before returning after drug washout.
@highlight DLAAA model enables evaluation of retinal neovascular therapeutic candidates.
