 Status epilepticus is a state of prolonged and repeated seizures that can lead to permanent brain damage or life threatening conditions . Transcranial direct current stimulation non invasively provides a polarity specific electric current to modulate brain excitability . Little is known about the therapeutic potential of tDCS in SE . Here we aim to determine the tDCS effects on seizure severity EEG and post SE consequences in rats with kainic acid induced SE . Rats were subjected to cathodal tDCS or sham stimulation over the dorsal hippocampus for 5days . KA was intraperitoneally injected to induce SE . We used continuous video EEG recording to monitor seizure activity immunostaining and Timm staining to evaluate neuron counts and mossy fiber sprouting and ELISA for Brain derived neurotrophic factor protein measurement . Two featured EEG patterns gamma ranged high frequency polyspikes and low frequency spike and wave complexes were identified in the hippocampal CA1 of KA induced SE rats . tDCS elicited a significant decrease in severe seizures of Racine stages 45 in KA induced SE rats . tDCS treated rats manifested diminished high frequency oscillation during SE decreased chronic spontaneous spike activities and mossy fiber sproutings compared to sham . tDCS treated rats also exhibited significantly lower hippocampal BDNF protein levels than sham immediately and 4weeks after SE . A positive correlation between the hippocampal BDNF level and the seizure severity of SE was found . Altogether our results show that repeated cathodal tDCS can mitigate seizure severity alter ictal EEG pattern and reduce the chronic adverse consequences in KA induced SE rats supporting the therapeutic potential of tDCS in severe prolonged epileptic seizures .

@highlight Repeated cathodal tDCS reduces seizure severity in status epilepticus rat model.
@highlight TDCS decreases the gamma ranged high frequency oscillation polyspikes on ictal EEG.
@highlight Less chronic spontaneous spikes are observed in tDCS treated rats.
@highlight Decreased BDNF expression correlates with less seizure severity in tDCS treated rats.
