 The effect of various combinations of cervical arterial ligations on retinal blood flow levels is not known in rats . We hypothesized 1 No artery exists between the Circle of Willis and the eye 2 Selective Combinations enable varying RBF levels between normal and zero 3 In certain Combinations the capillary bed of the head participates in supplying the eye . Twenty six Combinations were studied in one eye of 20 Long Evans rats under general anesthesia . RBF was quantitatively evaluated with our published imaging methods based on direct measurements of venous diameter and blood velocity from the displacement of fluorescent microspheres over time . For each Combination one or more RBF values were measured . Data were obtained from 59 runs . Levels of RBF ranged from normal to zero . An artery between the Circle of Willis and the eye was excluded . With some Combinations flow traversed the capillary bed . Combinations were consolidated into five Groups based on the blood flow paths remaining after the ligations . A mixed linear model accounting for multiple measurements in the same eye demonstrated an effect of Group on RBF . By major source of ocular blood supply the trend of RBF levels was ipsilateral carotid artery contralateral carotid artery ipsilateral distal internal carotid artery retrograde from Circle of Willis . The findings advanced knowledge of the sources of blood supply to the rat eye and demonstrated a method of selective cervical arterial ligations for varying RBF levels with potential to impact future retinal ischemia research .

@highlight Various combinations of cervical ligations can clarify blood supply to the eye.
@highlight There is no direct communication between the Circle of Willis and the eye.
@highlight The pterygopalatine artery is the input to the ophthalmic artery.
@highlight The capillary bed of the head can be a link in the ocular blood supply.
@highlight By choosing the ligations retinal blood flow can be varied from normal to zero.
