 To investigate the protective effect of inhibiting miR 181a on diabetic corneal nerve in mice we chose male C57BL 6 mice with streptozotocin induced diabetes as animal models . The expression of miR 181a in trigeminal ganglion tissue of diabetic mice was detected by real time PCR . In vitro we cultured mouse trigeminal ganglion neurons and measured the neuronal axon growth when treated under miR 181a antagomir and negative conditions . Immunofluorescence showed a significant increase in neuronal axon length in trigeminal ganglion cells treated with miR 181a antagomir . In animal models we performed epithelial scraping and subconjunctival injection of the miR 181a antagomir and miRNA antagomir NTC to observe the corneal nerve repair by corneal nerve staining . miR 181a antagomir subconjunctival injection significantly increased the corneal epithelium healing of diabetic mice compared with that of the NTC group . Meanwhile corneal nerve staining showed that the repair of corneal nerve endings was significantly promoted . As the targets of the 181a ATG5 and BCL 2 were previously identified . The results of Western blot showed that the expression of autophagy associated protein ATG5 and LC3B II and the expression of anti apoptotic protein Bcl 2 were decreased in the high glucose cell culture environment and the diabetic TG tissue . The expression of ATG5 LC3B II and Bcl 2 were significantly increased after miR 181a antagomir treatment compared with negative control group . This study showed that inhibition of miR 181a expression in diabetic mice could increase ATG5 mediated autophagic activation BCL 2 mediated inhibition of apoptosis and promote the growth of trigeminal sensory neurons and the regeneration of corneal nerve fibers . It has a protective effect on diabetic corneal neuropathy .

@highlight We evaluated the expression of miR 181a which is significantly different between normal and diabetic mice in trigeminal ganglion tissue.
@highlight The target genes of miR 181a were predicted by bioinformatics software Atg5 and Bcl 2 were identified as potential targets.
@highlight This study demonstrated that inhibiting the expression of miR 181a in a diabetic mouse models can increase Atg5 mediated activation of autophagy and the Bcl 2 mediated inhibition of apoptosis which has a protective effect.
