 Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause of death and disability in modern societies . Diffuse axonal and vascular injury are nearly universal consequences of mechanical energy impacting the head and contribute to disability throughout the injury severity spectrum . CHIMERA is a non surgical impact acceleration model of rodent TBI that reliably produces diffuse axonal injury characterized by white matter gliosis and axonal damage . At impact energies up to 0.7 joules which result in mild TBI in mice CHIMERA does not produce detectable vascular or grey matter injury . This study was designed to expand CHIMERA s capacity to induce more severe injuries including vascular damage and grey matter gliosis . This was made possible by designing a physical interface positioned between the piston and animal s head to allow higher impact energies to be transmitted to the head without causing skull fracture . Here we assessed interface assisted single CHIMERA TBI at 2.5 joules in wild type mice using a study design that spanned 6h60d time points . Injured animals displayed robust acute neurological deficits elevated plasma total tau and neurofilament light levels transiently increased proinflammatory cytokines in brain tissue blood brain barrier leakage and microstructural vascular abnormalities and grey matter microgliosis . Memory deficits were evident at 30d and resolved by 60d . Intriguingly white matter injury was not remarkable at acute time points but evolved over time with white matter gliosis being most extensive at 60d . Interface assisted CHIMERA thus enables experimental modeling of distinct endophenotypes of TBI that include acute vascular and grey matter injury in addition to chronic evolution of white matter damage similar to the natural history of human TBI .

@highlight We expanded the capacity of the mouse CHIMERA model to induce more severe injuries.
@highlight Interface assisted single CHIMERA TBI induced acute neurological deficits in mice.
@highlight Plasma total tau and neurofilament light levels were elevated after a single injury.
@highlight Acute microstructural vascular abnormalities and grey matter microgliosis were observed.
@highlight Memory deficits were evident at 30days post injury and resolved by day 60.
