 The purpose of the current work was to utilize a three dimensional corneal epithelial tissue model to study dry eye disease and oxidative stress related corneal epithelial injuries for the advancement of ocular therapeutics . Air liquid interface cultures of normal human corneal epithelial cells were used to produce 3D corneal epithelial tissues appropriate for physiologically relevant exposure to environmental factors . Oxidative stress was generated by exposing the tissues to non toxic doses of ultraviolet radiation hydrogen peroxide vesicating agent nitrogen mustard or desiccating conditions that stimulated morphological cellular and molecular changes relevant to dry eye disease . Corneal specific responses including barrier function tissue viability reactive oxygen species accumulation lipid peroxidation cytokine release histology and gene expression were evaluated . 3D corneal epithelial tissue model structurally and functionally reproduced key features of molecular responses of various types of oxidative stress induced ocular damage . The most pronounced effects for different treatments were UV irradiation intracellular ROS accumulation hydrogen peroxide exposure barrier impairment and IL 8 release nitrogen mustard exposure lipid peroxidation and IL 8 release desiccating conditions tissue thinning a decline in mucin expression increased lipid peroxidation and IL 8 release . Utilizing a PCR gene array we compared the effects of corneal epithelial damage on the expression of 84 oxidative stress responsive genes and found specific molecular responses for each type of damage . The topical application of lubricant eye drops improved tissue morphology while decreasing lipid peroxidation and IL 8 release from tissues incubated at desiccating conditions . This model is anticipated to be a valuable tool to study molecular mechanisms of corneal epithelial damage and aid in the development of therapies against dry eye disease oxidative stress and vesicant induced ocular injuries .

@highlight Physiologically relevant organotypic normal human corneal epithelial tissue model.
@highlight Realistic exposures to environmental factors low humidity UV harmful agents.
@highlight 3D tissues reproduce key features of oxidative stressinduced ocular damage.
@highlight Specific cellular and molecular responses to different types of oxidative stress.
@highlight Regulation of oxidative stress responsive genes following an oxidative damage.
