 Traumatic brain injury in children younger than 4years old results in cognitive and psychosocial deficits in adolescence and adulthood . At 4weeks following closed head injury on postnatal day 11 male and female rats exhibited impairment in novel object recognition memory along with an increase in open arm time in the elevated plus maze suggestive of risk taking behaviors . This was accompanied by an increase in intrinsic excitability and frequency of spontaneous excitatory post synaptic currents and a decrease in the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory post synaptic currents in layer 2 3 neurons within the medial prefrontal cortex a region that is implicated in both object recognition and risk taking behaviors . Treatment with progesterone for the first week after brain injury improved NOR memory at the 4 week time point in both sham and brain injured rats and additionally attenuated the injury induced increase in the excitability of neurons and the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs . The effect of progesterone on cellular excitability changes after injury may be related to its ability to decrease the mRNA expression of the 3 subunit of the voltage gated sodium channel and increase the expression of the neuronal excitatory amino acid transporter 3 in the medial PFC in sham and brain injured animals and also increase glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA expression in sham but not brain injured animals . Progesterone treatment did not affect injury induced changes in the EPM test . These results demonstrate that administration of progesterone immediately after TBI in 11 day old rats reduces cognitive deficits in adolescence which may be mediated by progesterone mediated regulation of excitatory signaling mechanisms within the medial PFC .

@highlight TBI in 11 day old rats results in cognitive deficits in adolescence.
@highlight TBI results in increased excitatory drive in medial prefrontal cortex neurons.
@highlight Progesterone attenuates both cognitive deficits and neuronal hyperexcitability.
