 The meninges not only surround the brain and the spinal cord but also the optic nerve . Meningeal derived extracellular matrix is a crucial component of the pial basement membrane glia limitans and important for maintenance of optic nerve axon integrity homeostasis and retinal ganglion cell health . To get closer insight into optic nerve meningeal derived ECM composition we performed proteomic analysis of the sheep optic nerve subarachnoid space . Candidate components were confirmed in cultures of primary human meningothelial cells and human optic nerve samples . Sheep optic nerve SAS samples were analysed by LC MS identified proteins were matched to their human orthologs and filtered using gene lists representing all major ECM components . To validate these findings digital droplet PCR to evaluate mRNA expression of all candidate components identified was performed on cultures of phMECs . In addition one protein per major ECM group was stained on human optic nerve sections and on phMEC cultures . Employing LC MS 1273 proteins were identified and subjected to bioinformatic analysis . Gene ontology analysis revealed six out of forty four collagen types three out of eleven laminin subunits and six out of twenty seven hyaluronan binding proteins C1q binding protein neurocan brevican and hyalaluronan proteoglycan link protein 2 were present in our cohort . DdPCR in phMEC cell culture confirmed presence of all candidate components except NCAN BCAN and HAPLN2 . Immunohistochemistry staining on human optic nerve sections and immunofluorescence staining on in vitro cultured phMECs showed strong immunopositivity for collagen typeI 1 laminin1 and VCAN . Fibronectin was exclusively present in cultures of phMECs . Using a combined bioinformatics and immunohistological approach we describe the ECM composition of the optic nerve subarachnoid space . As this space plays an important role in maintaining optic nerve function a better understanding of ECM composition in this delicate environment might be key to further pathophysiological insight into optic nerve degeneration and associated disorders .

@highlight 1273 proteins found in sheep optic nerve subarachnoid space pia arachnoid dura .
@highlight 1143 matches between sheep and human proteins using bioinformatic analysis.
@highlight Major proteins found included collagens laminins and hyaluronan binding proteins.
@highlight Verification in meningothelial cell culture and human optic nerve samples performed.
