 Herein partially summarizes one scientist clinician s wanderings through the jungles of primate aqueous humor outflow over the past 45 years . Totally removing the iris has no effect on outflow facility or its response to pilocarpine whereas disinserting the ciliary muscle from the scleral spur trabecular meshwork completely abolishes pilocarpine s effect . Epinephrine increases facility in CM disinserted eyes . Cytochalasins and latrunculins increase outflow facility subthreshold doses of cytochalasins and epinephrine given together increase facility and phalloidin which has no effect on facility partially blocks the effect of both cytochalasins and epinephrine . H 7 ML7 Y27632 and nitric oxide donating compounds all increase facility consistent with a mechanosensitive TM SC . Adenosine A1 agonists increase and angiotensin II decrease facility . OCT and optical imaging techniques now permit visualization and digital recording of the distal outflow pathways in real time . Prostaglandin F2 analogues increase the synthesis and release of matrix metalloproteinases by the CM cells causing remodeling and thinning of the interbundle extracellular matrix thereby increasing uveoscleral outflow and reducing IOP . Combination molecules and fixed combination products simplify drug regimens for patients . Gene and stem cell therapies to enhance aqueous outflow have been successful in laboratory models and may fill an unmet need in terms of patient compliance taking the patient out of the delivery system . Functional transfer of genes inhibiting the rho cascade or decoupling actin from myosin increase facility while genes preferentially expressed in the glaucomatous TM decrease facility . In live NHP reporter genes are expressed for 2 years in the TM after a single intracameral injection with no adverse reaction . However except for one recent report injection of facility effective genes in monkey organ cultured anterior segments have no effect in live NHP . While intracameral injection of an FIV . BOVPGFS myc.GFP PGF synthase vector construct reproducibly induces an 2mmHg reduction in IOP the effect is much less than that of topical PGF

@highlight Cholinomimetics increase outflow facility solely via CM contraction.
@highlight Epinephrine RKIs and NO facility by inhibiting TM contractility relaxing TM and dilating SC.
@highlight PGF
@highlight Fu by CM cell MMP synthesis release and remodeling CM ECM collagen.
@highlight Viral vectors can transfer reporter genes expressing for 2yrs in live monkey TM genes inhibiting TM contractility and facility in MOCAS and genes that facility in MOCAS perhaps presaging molecular models for human POAG.
@highlight iPSC cell derived TM cells populated TM rescued outflow in several models.
