 Receptor interacting protein kinase 3 regulates a newly discovered cell death form called necroptosis . RIPK3 nuclear translocation and inflammatory factor release are involved in necroptosis after rat global cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury . The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of interactions between the RIPK3 and apoptosis inducing factor necroptosis pathway and the JNK mediated inflammatory pathway . Rats were subjected to 4 vessel occlusion and reperfusion injury . RIPK3 inhibitor GSK872 RIPk3 recombinant adeno associated virus and JNK specific inhibitor SP600125 were intracerebroventricular injected before I R. Hippocampus CA1 tissue were obtained and RIPK3 AIF p JNK IL 6 were determined by western blot analysis . The RIPK3 and AIF interaction were also analyzed by immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation . The expression of endogenous RIPK3 AIF p JNK and IL 6 was increased in hippocampus CA1 in I R group . In addition RIPK3 was increased in both the total protein and nuclear protein . GSK872 administration reduced the number of neuron deaths and the expression of RIPK3 p JNK and IL 6 . GSK872 also improve the rat neurobehavior . While use RIPk3 rAAV treatment to overexpress RIPK3 it appeared lower neuron survival . Immunofluorescence staining demonstrated that RIPK3 and AIF formed as a novel complex in the cytoplasm first and then nuclear translocation . GSK872 pretreatment decreased the number of RIPK3 positive cells and related to the generation of RIPK3 AIF complex in nuclear . Moreover the production of inflammatory factors levels was found to be significantly elevated after I R. We further use SP600125 to attenuate inflammation cascade . It not only inhibits the expression of inflammatory factors p JNK and IL 6 but also inhibits RIPK3 and AIF in the cytoplasm . Collectively the results of our study indicate that RIPK3 mediated necroptosis interacts with the JNK mediated inflammatory signaling pathway to participate in global cerebral I R injury . JNK regulated inflammatory mediators may promote the necroptosis initiation .

@highlight RIPK3 AIF complex nuclear transfer mediates cell death after I R injury.
@highlight Inhibitor GSK872 attenuates RIPK3 AIF complex enrichment in nucleus.
@highlight Regulation of RIPK3 affects the JNK and IL 6 induced inflammation.
@highlight JNK inflammatory signaling promotes the necroptosis initial.
