 The adult mammalian central nervous system rarely recovers from injury . Myelin fragments contain axonal growth inhibitors that limit axonal regeneration thus playing a major role in determining neural recovery . Nogo receptor 1 and its ligands are among the inhibitors that limit axonal regeneration . It has been previously shown that the endogenous protein lateral olfactory tract usher substance antagonizes NgR1 mediated signaling and accelerates neuronal plasticity after spinal cord injury and cerebral ischemia in mice . However it remained unclear whether LOTUS mediated reorganization of descending motor pathways in the adult brain is physiologically functional and contributes to functional recovery . Here we generated LOTUS overexpressing transgenic rats to investigate the role of LOTUS in neuronal function after damage . After unilateral pyramidotomy motor function in LOTUS Tg rats recovered significantly compared to that in wild type animals . In a retrograde tracing study labeled axons spanning from the impaired side of the cervical spinal cord to the unlesioned hemisphere of the red nucleus and sensorimotor cortex were increased in LOTUS Tg rats . Anterograde tracing from the unlesioned cortex also revealed enhanced ipsilateral connectivity to the impaired side of the cervical spinal cord in LOTUS Tg rats . Moreover electrophysiological analysis showed that contralesional cortex stimulation significantly increased ipsilateral forelimb movement in LOTUS Tg rats which was consistent with the histological findings . According to these data LOTUS overexpression accelerates ipsilateral projection from the unlesioned cortex and promotes functional recovery after unilateral pyramidotomy . LOTUS could be a future therapeutic option for CNS injury .

@highlight LOTUS Tg rats allowed the study of endogenous NgR1 antagonist function.
@highlight LOTUS was overexpressed in the cervical spinal cord after unilateral pyramidotomy.
@highlight LOTUS Tg rats had faster functional improvement after unilateral pyramidotomy.
@highlight LOTUS promoted neural plasticity and unlesioned cortexdenervated side connection.
@highlight LOTUS promoted functional improvement after central nervous system injury.
