 Exosomes are emerging as novel players in the beneficial effects induced by exercise on vascular diseases . We have recently revealed that moderate exercise enhances the function of circulating endothelial progenitor cell derived EXs on protecting endothelial cells against hypoxia injury . However the relationship between the changes of cEPC EXs and the effects of exercise on ischemic stroke is unknown . Here we investigated whether exercise regulated EPC EXs contribute to the beneficial effects of exercise on IS . C57BL 6 mice received moderate treadmill exercise for 4 wks and then were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion stroke . The neurologic deficit score infarct volume microvessel density cell apoptosis angiogenesis neurogenesis sensorimotor functions were determined on day 2 and or day 28 post stroke . The miR 126 and EPC EX levels were analyzed by RT PCR or nanoparticle tracking analysis combined with microbeads and used for correlation analyses . The function of EPC EXs from exercised mice was detected in a hypoxia neuron model . Cell apoptosis axon growth ability and gene expressions were measured . Our data showed that i On day 2 exercised mice had decreased NDS and infarct volume reduced cell apoptosis rate and cleaved cas 3 level and a higher microvessel density than those in control mice . The levels of EPC EXs in plasma and brain tissue were raised and positively correlated in exercised mice . Meanwhile the miR 126 level in cEPC EXs and in ischemic tissue were upregulated in exercised mice . The EPC EXs and their carried miR 126 levels negatively correlated with the infarct volume and cell apoptosis whereas positively correlated with microvessel density . In addition cEPC EXs from exercised mice elicited protective effects on neurons against hypoxia induced apoptosis and compromised axon growth ability which were blocked by miR 126 and PI3k inhibitors in vitro . ii On day 28 exercised mice had less infarct volume higher microvessel density angiogenesis neurogenesis and better sensorimotor functions . The levels of BDNF p TrkB TrkB and p Akt Akt were upregulated in the brain of exercised mice . These recovery indexes correlated with the levels of cEPC EXs and their miR 126 . In conclusion our data suggest that moderate exercise intervention has protective effects on the brain against MCAO induced ischemic injury in both acute and chronic stages which might via the release of miR 126 enriched EPC EXs .

@highlight Moderate treadmill exercise alleviated acute injury in IS.
@highlight Moderate treadmill exercise promoted chronic functional recovery in IS.
@highlight Moderate treadmill exercise enhanced the function of cEPC EXs.
@highlight The levels of cEPC EXs and miR 126 correlated with the acute injury index of IS.
@highlight The levels of cEPC EXs and miR 126 correlated with the chronic recovery index of IS.
