 We reviewed the literature on the aqueous humor proteome of primary open angle glaucoma patients in order to obtain deeper insight into the pathophysiology of POAG . We searched Pubmed and Embase up to May 2019 for studies that compared AH protein composition between POAG and cataract . Untargeted studies were divided into two subgroups depending on the type of surgery during which POAG AH was collected glaucoma filtration surgery or cataract surgery . We reanalyzed the raw data or combined the reported data to perform GO enrichment and pathway analysis . Out of 93 eligible proteomic studies seven were untargeted studies that identified 863 AH proteins . We observed 73 differentially expressed proteins in subgroup 1 and 87 differentially expressed proteins in subgroup 2 . Both subgroups were characterized by activation of the acute immune response dysregulation of folate metabolism and dysregulation of the selenium micronutrient network . For subgroup 1 but not for subgroup 2 proteins of the complement system were significantly enriched . AH proteome of POAG patients shows strong activation of the immune system . In addition analysis suggests dysregulation of folate metabolism and dysregulation of selenium as underlying contributors . In view of their glaucoma surgery POAG patients of subgroup 1 most likely are progressive whereas POAG patients in subgroup 2 most likely have stable POAG . The proteome difference between these subgroups suggests that the complement system plays a role in POAG progression .

@highlight Reanalyzed or combined outcome of untargeted proteomic studies LC MS MS on glaucoma aqueous humor.
@highlight The immune system is activated in glaucoma aqueous humor.
@highlight There is dysregulation of selenium and folate in glaucoma aqueous humor.
@highlight Aqueous humor proteome differs between progressive filtration surgery and stable cataract surgery glaucoma patients.
@highlight The complement system is strongly dysregulated in the aqueous humor of progressive glaucoma patients.
