 Sleep fragmentation is an increase in sleep wake transitions without an overall decrease in total sleep time . Sleep fragmentation is well documented during acute and chronic hospitalization and can result in delirium and memory problems in children . Sleep fragmentation is also often noted in neurodevelopmental disorders . However it is unclear how sleep fragmentation independent of disease affects brain development and function . We hypothesized that acute sleep fragmentation during the neonatal period in otherwise healthy animals would result in neuroinflammation and would be associated with abnormalities in cognitive development . The orbital shaker method was used to fragment sleep for 72h in postnatal day 3 New Zealand white rabbit kits . To control for maternal separation the sham group was separated from the dam and maintained in the same conditions without undergoing sleep fragmentation . A nave control group remained with the dam . Kits underwent behavioral testing with novel object recognition and spontaneous alternation T maze tests at 23weeks post fragmentation and were sacrificed 350days after fragmentation . Sleep fragmentation resulted in acute and chronic changes in microglial morphology in the hippocampus and cortex and regional differences in mRNA expression of pro and anti inflammatory cytokines at 3 7 and 50days post fragmentation . Impaired novel object recognition and a longer latency in T maze task completion were noted in the fragmented kits . This was in spite of normalization of sleep architecture noted at 2months of age in these kits . The results indicate that transient neonatal sleep fragmentation results in short term and long term immune alterations in the brain along with diminished performance in cognitive tasks long term .

@highlight Transient sleep fragmentation during development leads to cognitive deficits later.
@highlight Transient neonatal sleep fragmentation leads to persistent neuroinflammation.
@highlight Sleep fragmentation affects normal cognitive development even if sleep architecture normalizes.
