 As the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha agonist fenofibrate has been widely used to be a good lipid regulating drug in the clinical application . In this study we investigated the mechanism by which keratocytes inhibit the corneal neovascularization through PPAR activation . To do this the CNV model was established by alkali burn followed by being divided into three groups including control fenofibrate and vehicle group . The expression of VEGFr3 MMP13 and PPAR in corneas of normal mouse and alkali burned mouse was determined via quantitative RT PCR and Western blot analysis . The CNV area was observed under a slit lamp microscope . The location of PPAR expression in the corneas was determined via immunohistochemistry . In cultured primary keratocytes the effect of fenofibrate on PPAR VEGFr3 and MMP13 expression was determined by qRT PCR and WB . Besides PPAR knockout mouse CNV and keratocytes model were established to further confirm the effect of PPAR on VEGFr3 and MMP13 expression . We found that PPAR was expressed in epithelium stroma and endothelium of the normal cornea however with relatively low level in the corneal stroma . Meanwhile its expression was decreased markedly in the cornea during the stage of CNV formation . After treatment of fenofibrate PPAR expression was promoted and the expression of VEGFr3 and MMP13 was inhibited in both CNV mice model and primary keratocytes and CNV areas were decreased in CNV mice model . However the results in PPAR CNV and keratocytes model were opposite . Our results suggest that keratocytes could promote the expression of VEGFr3 and MMP13 and CNV formation through PPAR downregulation .

@highlight PPAR gene knockout promoted the CNV induced by VEGFr3 and MMP13.
@highlight PPAR activation inhibited the CNV via downregulating VEGFr3 and MMP13 expression.
@highlight PPAR gene knockout could promote the VEGFr3 and MMP13 expression in keratocytes.
@highlight Fenofibrate decreased VEGFr3 and MMP13 expression levels in keratocytes.
