 Limbal stem cells a subpopulation of limbal epithelial basal cells are crucial to the homeostasis and wound healing of corneal epithelium . The identification and isolation of LSCs remains a challenge due to lack of specific LSCs biomarkers . In this study Haematoxylin eosin 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole and immunohistochemistry stains were performed on the pre and post natal limbus tissues of mice which has the advantage of more controllable in term of sampling age relative to human origin . By morphological analysis we supported that there is an absence of the Palisades of Vogt in the mouse . The development of prenatal and neonatal cornea was dominated by its stroma whereas after eyelids opened at P14 the corneal epithelial cells quickly go stratification in response to the liquid air interface . Based on IHC staining we found that the expression of LSCs putative biomarkers in limbal epithelial basal cells appeared in chronological order as follows Vim p63 CK14 CK15 and in corneal epithelial basal cells were weakened in chronological order as follows Vim p63 CK15 CK14 which might also represent the stemness degree . Furthermore the dynamic spatial expression of the examined LSCs putative biomarkers during mouse development also implied a temporal restriction . The expression of Vim in epithelial cells of mouse ocular surface occurred during E12 E19 only . The expression of CK15 was completely undetectable in CECs after P14 whereas the others putative molecular markers of LSCs such as p63 and CK14 still remained weak expression suggesting that CK15 was suitable to serve as the mouse LSCs biomarkers after P14 . In this study our data demonstrated the dynamic spatiotemporal expression pattern of LSCs putative biomarkers in mouse was age related and revealed the time spectrum of the expression of LSCs in mouse which adds in our knowledge by understanding the dynamic expression pattern of biomarkers of stem cells relate to maintenance of their stemness .

@highlight The differentiation of CECs is related to eye opening in mice.
@highlight Dynamic spatial expression pattern reveals a temporal restriction of LSCs putative biomarkers.
@highlight The order of Vim p63 CK15 CK14 might represent the stemness degree in ocular surface during mouse development.
