 Glaucoma is characterized by the neurodegeneration of retinal ganglion cells and the optic nerve . Numerous studies have reported that S100A4 participates in the metastasis of tumor cells and nerve protection . This study was intended to explore the role of S100A4 on RGCs under retinal ischemia reperfusion injury in mice . C57BL 6J mice were used to induce retinal I R injury . The intravitreal administration of rAAV EF1 s100a4 EGFP WPRE or rAAV EF1 EGFP WPRE Pa was performed 4 weeks before I R injury . Expression of S100A4 was detected by quantitative real time PCR immunofluorescence staining of retinal sections and western blot . Surviving RGCs were quantified using immunofluorescence staining . Staining of TUNEL was utilized to evaluate the apoptosis of retinal cells . Electroretinogram was used to analyze retinal function . Expression of Akt phospho Akt Bcl 2 and Bax were determined using western blotting to investigate the potential mechanisms of S100A4 . Retinal S100A4 level had no statistical difference 7 days after I R injury . The rAAV S100A4 was clearly demonstrated by the green fluorescence protein in many layers of the retina after intravitreal injection and up regulated the expression of S100A4 . I R injury resulted in an increase of the apoptosis of retinal cells and the reduction of surviving RGCs however overexpressed S100A4 inhibited the apoptosis of cells and a decrease of RGCs . ERG analysis showed a drop on amplitude of a wave and b wave was impeded to some extent by overexpressing of S100A4 . Up regulation of S100A4 raised the expression of phospho Akt and reduced Bax expression . Nevertheless there were no significant changes in the levels of Bcl 2 and total Akt . Our results indicate the neuroprotective effects of overexpressed S100A4 on RGCs by activating the Akt pathway and then inhibiting the apoptosis of cells after I R injury . The use of S100A4 protein may be a novel therapeutic strategy for glaucoma .

@highlight The neuroprotective effects of S100A4 on RGCs were reported for the first time.
@highlight Overexpressed S100A4 inhibited the damage of retinal function induced by retinal ischemia reperfusion injury.
@highlight The neuroprotection of overexpressed S100A4 achieved by activating Akt signaling and then inhibiting the apoptosis of cells.
