 In this study we established an experimental human corneal stroma model of simulated cornea tissue composed of thin anterior cornea strips layers obtained from small incision lenticular extraction surgery . We investigated the biomechanical effect of ultraviolet A riboflavin cross linking at different depths of corneal stroma model and correlated it with stromal microstructural changes examined by transmission electron microscopy . Corneal strips were harvested from fresh human corneal lenticules obtained after SMILE surgery . Experimental models were established by superimposing the corneal lenticule strips until their thickness reached close to 500m . Corneal cross linking was performed subsequently using standard or accelerated protocol . Elasticity and viscosity were quantified using stress strain extensometer . TEM was used to visualize the collagen fiber diameter and interfibrillar spacing . The relative change in Young s modulus decreased nonlinearly with increasing stromal depth both in the standard and accelerated groups . Compared to the sham controls the rel . E in standard and accelerated CXL groups increased significantly in the anterior 400m and 275m depth respectively . Also the relative change in stress was significantly lower after standard and accelerated CXL compared to sham controls . Depth analysis showed similar results for the elastic effect . TEM images showed a small non significant increase in fibril diameter . The interfibrillar spacing decreased significantly after standard and accelerated CXL in the anterior mid stromal region . We noted that the increase of corneal stiffness correlated with decrease in interfibrillar spacing after CXL . The stiffening effect was depth dependent . The effect of accelerated CXL was less in the deep corneal stromal regions compared to standard CXL .

@highlight Biomechanical property changes are based on corresponding changes in morphology.
@highlight The increase of corneal stiffness correlated with decrease in interfibrillar spacing.
@highlight The stiffening effect was depth dependent after Collagen crosslinking.
