 Preeclampsia is a hypertensive complication of pregnancy . Its cause is still unknown and it could be a risk factor for future ophthalmic problems . Retinal vascular bed alterations have been described as a consequence of PE suggesting a retinopathy . Factors related to angiogenesis and vascular permeability such as vascular endothelial growth factor and pigment epithelium derived factor or components of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system prorrenin renin receptor RR and angiotensin II type I receptor have been located in the retina participating in other retinopathies but it is unknown if they could participate in PE . Our aim was to elucidate whether VEGF PEDF RR and AT1R could be modified during PE and during hypertension induced in rats with a history of PE . We used female Wistar rats and subrrenal aortic coarctation to induce PE and after delivery we induced a second hit by N nitro L arginine methyl ester administration . We measured blood pressure proteinuria and pups development . In both models eye fundal exploration and immunoblot for VEGF PEDF RR and AT1R were performed . We found that the development of hypertension occurred faster in previously PE rats than in normal animals . VEGF PEDF RR and AT1R were increased in PE but in L NAME induced hypertension only RR and AT1R were altered . Eye fundal data indicated that PE induced a level I retinopathy but L NAME induced a faster and more severe retinopathy in previously PE animals compared to previously normal pregnancy rats . These results indicate that PE predisposes to development of a faster and more severe retinopathy after a second hit . They also suggest that VEGF and PEDF seem to participate only in PE retinopathy but in both models RAAS components seem to have a more critical participation .

@highlight AT1 receptor and Pro renin renin receptor participates in preeclampsia retinopathy.
@highlight VEGF and PEDF are augmented in preeclamptic retinopathy.
@highlight L NAME induced hypertension develops faster in previously preeclamptic animals.
@highlight AT1 receptor and Pro renin renin receptor participate in L NAME induced retinopathy.
@highlight VEGF and PEDF do not seem to participate in L NAME induced retinopathy.
