 Retinopathy of prematurity is a growing cause of lifelong blindness and visual defects as improved neonatal care worldwide increases survival in very low birthweight preterm newborns . Advancing ROP is managed by laser surgery or a single intravitreal injection of anti VEGF typically at 3336 weeks gestational age . While newer methods of scanning and telemedicine improve monitoring ROP the above interventions are more difficult to deliver in developing countries . There is also concern as to laser induced detachment and adverse developmental effects in newborns of anti VEGF treatment spurring a search for alternative means of mitigating ROP . Pigment epithelium derived factor a potent angiogenesis inhibitor appears late in gestation is undetected in 2528 week vitreous but present at full term . Its absence may contribute to ROP upon transition from high to ambient oxygen environment or with intermittent hypoxia . We recently described antiangiogenic PEDF derived small peptides which inhibit choroidal neovascularization and suggested that their target may be laminin receptor 67LR . The latter has been implicated in oxygen induced ischemic retinopathy . Here we examined the effect of a nonapeptide PEDF 336 in a newborn mouse OIR model . Neovascularization was significantly decreased in a dose responsive manner by single intravitreal injections of 1.257.5 g eye . By contrast anti mouse VEGFA

@highlight PEDF derived 9 mer peptide PEDF 336 previously shown to inhibit laser induced CNV in mice was tested in OIR.
@highlight IVT injection of 1 L PEDF 336 1.257.5 g in neonatal mouse eyes at transition from 75 O2 to room air P12 reduced NV and VO at P17.
@highlight While PEDF 336 displayed dose responsive efficacy anti mouse VEGFA164 was active only at 25 ng eye but not at half or twice this dose.
@highlight Combination of both peptide and anti VEGF showed only antibody efficacy but not robust peptide activity thus the latter may require VEGF.
@highlight PEDF 336 contains a 5 mer epitope Y R that binds laminin receptor 67LR which increased on choroidal EC after exposure to VEGF.
