 Spinal cord injury produces both locomotor deficits and sensory dysfunction that greatly reduce the overall quality of life . Mechanisms underlying chronic pain include increased neuro inflammation and changes in spinal processing of sensory signals with reduced inhibitory GABAergic signaling a likely key player . Our previous research demonstrated that spinal transplantation of GABAergic neural progenitor cells reduced neuropathic pain while intensive locomotor training could reduce development of pain and partially reverse already established pain behaviors . Therefore we evaluate the potential mutually beneficial anti hypersensitivity effects of NPC transplants cells in combination with early or delayed ILT . NPC transplants were done at 4weeks post SCI . ILT using a progressive ramping treadmill protocol was initiated either 5days post SCI or at 5weeks post SCI in male Sprague Dawley rats . Results showed that either ILT alone or NPCs alone could partially attenuate SCI neuropathic pain behaviors in both prevention and reversal paradigms . However the combination of ILT with NPC transplants significantly enhanced neuropathic pain reduction on most of the outcome measures including tests for allodynia hyperalgesia and ongoing pain . Immunocytochemical and neurochemical analyses showed decreased pro inflammatory markers and spinal pathology with individual treatments these measures were further improved by the combination of either early or delayed ILT and GABAergic cellular transplantation . Lumbar dorsal horn GABAergic neuronal and process density were nearly restored to normal levels by the combination treatment . Together these interventions may provide a less hostile and more supportive environment for promoting functional restoration in the spinal dorsal horn and attenuation of neuropathic pain following SCI . These findings suggest mutually beneficial effects of ILT and NPC transplants for reducing SCI neuropathic pain .

@highlight Intensive locomotor training ILT partially prevented or reversed SCI pain.
@highlight GABAergic cellular transplantation partially prevented or reversed SCI pain.
@highlight The combination of ILT and transplants enhanced the attenuation of SCI pain.
@highlight Individual and combination therapy decreased pro inflammatory markers and spinal pathology.
@highlight GABAergic neuronal and process density were normalized by the combination treatment.
