 The presence of a phagocytic peak of photoreceptor outer segments by the retinal pigment epithelium one or 2h after the onset of light has been reported for several diurnal and nocturnal species . This peak in phagocytic activity also persists under constant lighting conditions thus demonstrating that the timing of this peak is driven by a circadian clock . The aim of this study was to investigate the change in RPE whole transcriptome at two different circadian times and 1h after subjective light onset . C57BL 6J male mice were maintained in constant dark conditions for three days and euthanized under red light at CT23 and CT1 . RPE was isolated from whole eyes for RNA library preparation and sequencing on an Illumina HiSeq4000 platform . 14 083 mouse RPE transcripts were detected in common between CT23 and CT1 . 12 005 were protein coding transcripts and 2078 were non protein coding transcripts . 2421 protein coding transcripts were significantly upregulated whereas only 3 transcripts were significantly downregulated and 12 non protein coding transcripts were significantly upregulated and 31 non protein coding transcripts were significantly downregulated at CT1 when compared to CT23 . Of the protein coding transcripts most of them were characterized as enzymes kinases and transcriptional regulators with a large majority of activity in the cytoplasm nucleus and plasma membrane . Non protein coding transcripts included biotypes such as long non coding RNAs and pseudogenes . Gene ontology analysis and ingenuity pathway analysis revealed that differentially expressed transcripts were associated with integrin signaling oxidative phosphorylation protein phosphorylation and actin cytoskeleton remodeling suggesting that these previously identified phagocytic pathways are under circadian control . Our analysis identified new pathways that may be involved in the circadian control of phagocytic activity . In addition our dataset suggests a possible regulatory role for the identified non protein coding transcripts in mediating the complex function of RPE phagocytosis . Finally our results also indicate as seen in other tissues about 20 of the whole RPE transcriptome may be under circadian clock regulation .

@highlight Identified a new pathway mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation associated with circadian control of phagocytic activity.
@highlight About 20 of the whole RPE transcriptome may be under circadian clock regulation.
@highlight Known RPE phagocytic pathways integrin protein phosphorylation cAMP signaling are possibly under circadian control.
@highlight Identified 14 083 transcripts where 12 005 were protein coding and 2078 were non protein coding transcripts.
@highlight Observed large upregulation transcriptional activity at CT1 compared to CT23 2421 with little downregulation activity 3 .
