 The highly innervated cornea is susceptible to nerve loss secondary to systemic diseases such as diabetes and metabolic disturbances caused by high fat diet . In this study we characterize the effect of high fat diet on the mouse corneal neuroimmune phenotype including changes to corneal nerve density and resident immune cells alongside the clinical assessment of corneal thickness and endothelial cell density . Male C57Bl6 J mice aged 10 weeks were fed a high fat diet or control diet for 16 weeks . At the study endpoint metabolic parameters were measured to confirm metabolic disturbance . Clinical imaging of the anterior segment was performed using optical coherence tomography to measure the corneal epithelial and stromal thickness . Corneal sensory nerves were visualized using flatmount immunostaining and confocal microscopy . The topographical distribution and density of sensory nerves BIII tubulin High fat diet mice had significantly higher blood HbA1c higher body weight a higher percentage of body fat and elevated fasting glucose compared to the control diet mice . Corneal epithelial and stromal thickness was similar in both groups . The sum length of the basal nerve plexus was lower in the central and peripheral cornea of mice fed a high fat diet . In contrast the sum length of superficial nerve terminals was similar between groups . Epithelial immune cell density was two fold higher in the central corneas of high fat diet mice compared to control diet mice . IBA1 Together with corneal neuropathy corneal immune cells in mice fed a high fat diet were differentially affected depending on their topographical distribution and location within cornea and appeared in closer proximity to epithelial and stromal nerves suggesting a local neuroimmune disruption induced by systemic metabolic disturbance .

@highlight Research highlights Jiao et al. The effect of high fat diet induced metabolic disturbance on corneal neuroimmune phenotype.
@highlight High fat diet in mice differentially affects corneal sensory nerve plexi.
@highlight Intraepithelial CD45
@highlight cells and macrophages are affected in the corneas of high fat diet mice.
@highlight Endothelial cells and corneal thickness remain unchanged in the high fat diet mice.
@highlight The changes in the corneal immune cells correlate with metabolic disturbance.
