 There is a need to find alternative treatments for MEe . Bromfenac has shown promise in inhibiting the COX 2 enzymatic pathway that partially causes the inflammatory cascade which contributes to the precipitation of ME . However like other NSAID s its intraocular half life is limited . We hypothesize that a delayed release liposome formulation containing bromfenac might provide a similar anti inflammatory effect as long lasting steroid release systems without the well known steroidal side effects . We introduced a novel formulation with these characteristics into the vitreous cavity of rabbit eyes in order to evaluate its safety profile . 10 left eyes of rabbits were injected with the liposome encapsulated bromfenac suspension . Basal ERG s were recorded . Total follow up time was 3 months at which point ERG s were repeated and eyes were enucleated for histopathological study . Total amplitude and implicit times were recorded . A difference of 25 in either recording was considered significant . Significance was assessed using the paired t test and Wilcoxon matched pairs signed rank test . A p value of 0.05 was considered significant . No significant changes were recorded in ERG measurements after 3 months when compared to basal measurements . Histopathological analysis of retinal specimens found no traces of liposome induced toxicity . The liposome encapsulated bromfenac suspension is not toxic and has been proven safe to use in an animal model . Therefore this formulation shows promise as a possible future alternative treatment for ME and should be further studied to show its biological effect and efficacy .

@highlight Diabetic macular edema is the main cause of impaired BCVA in developed countries.
@highlight The pathogenesis of DME is multifactorial but one of the main routes is inflammation.
@highlight Although Anti VEGF therapy is the gold standard of therapy it is not enough to perfectly handle DME.
@highlight By attacking the COX 2 pathway of inflammation it is possible to improve the features of DME.
@highlight Liposome encapsulated bromfenac may be a new therapeutic option for DME.
