 Preconditioning peripheral nerve injury primes the sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia to acquire axon regeneration competence . Transcription of a large set of regeneration associated genes contributes to the enhanced intrinsic axonal regeneration capacity . However the mechanism underlying the coordinated upregulation of RAGs orchestrated by preconditioning injury is unclear . We sought to determine potential influence of DNA methylation change on transcriptional activation of RAGs in the L4 L6 DRGs following sciatic nerve injury . Genome wide sequencing revealed that about 20 of the methylated DNA fragments were differentially methylated and 3000 genes contained differentially methylated regions . Not only demethylation but also increased methylation was observed to a similar extent . The change in the global DNA methylation did not correlate with the gene expression level of most genes including the well documented RAGs . However pharmacological inhibition or activation of DNA methylation markedly attenuated the axon growth capacity of the preconditioned DRG neurons . Pharmacological perturbation of DNA methylation resulted in simultaneous downregulation of many highly overlapping non transcription factor RAGs which was accompanied by a concurrent robust upregulation of SOCS3 and Serpine1 . Overexpression of SOCS3 and Serpine1 in the DRG neurons overrode injury induced axon growth competence corroborating their roles as the negative regulators of axon regeneration . We conclude that the injury induced global alteration of DNA methylome strongly influences the axon growth competence in preconditioned DRG neurons . Our results also suggest a possibility that perturbing DNA methylome changes might lead to the upregulation of negative regulator RAGs thereby attenuating axon growth capacity .

@highlight Preconditioning peripheral nerve injury led to substantial changes in DNA methylation in dorsal root ganglia DRGs .
@highlight The global changes in DNA methylation were not correlated with the level of gene expression measured by RNA seq.
@highlight Pharmacological inhibition or activation of DNA methylation attenuated axon growth competence of conditioned DRG neurons.
@highlight Pharmacological perturbations downregulated non transcription factor RAGs accompanied by upregulation of SOCS3 and Serpine1.
@highlight Overexpression of SOCS3 and Serpine1 in DRG neurons overrode injury induced axon growth competence.
