 Retinal detachment induces ischemia and oxygen deficiency in the retina and results in multiple pathological events photoreceptor cell degeneration and death is the eventual cause of vision decline . In this study we investigated the therapeutic effects of mesenchymal stem cell derived exosomes in a rat retinal detachment model . The model was developed using a subretinal injection of 1 hyaluronic acid in male Sprague Dawley rats . MSC Exos were sub retinally injected at the time of retinal separation to study their therapeutic function . The retinal expression levels of inflammatory cytokines TNF IL 1 and MCP 1 were detected by RT PCR the autophagy related protein 5 and microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta were detected by Western blot and apoptosis was examined using TUNEL assays at 3 days following RD . Retinal structure was observed at 7 days post RD . Proteomic analysis was also performed to detect proteins carried by MSC Exos using iTRAQ based technology combined with one dimensional nano LC nano ESI MS MS. We found that expression of TNF and IL 1 were significantly reduced the LC3 II to LC3 I ratio was enhanced and cleavage of Atg5 was decreased after MSC Exo treatment . Treatment with MSC Exos also suppressed photoreceptor cell apoptosis and maintained normal retinal structure when compared to control groups . Proteomic analysis revealed that MSC Exos contained proteins with anti inflammatory neuroprotective and anti apoptotic effects . These results suggest that MSC Exos have therapeutic effects on RD induced retinal injury and can be used to reduce effects of retinal detachment on photoreceptor cell degeneration in patients .

@highlight In this study we investigated the therapeutic effects of mesenchymal stem cell derived exosomes MSC Exos in a RD model.
@highlight MSC Exos reduced retinal inflammation enhanced autophagy suppressed apoptosis and maintained retinal structure.
@highlight Proteomic analysis revealed MSC Exos contained proteins that have therapeutic effects.
