 Vitronectin is a blood protein produced mainly by the liver . We show that VTN leaks from the bloodstream into the injury site and neighboring subventricular zone following ischemic stroke in adult mice . MCAO is known to increase neurogenesis after stroke . VTN inhibits this response in females but not in males as shown by 70 more stroke induced SVZ neurogenesis in female VTN mice at 14 d. In female VTN mice stroke induced expression of interleukin 6 at 24h was reduced in the SVZ . The closely related leukemia inhibitory factor or pro neurogenic ciliary neurotrophic factor were not affected . The female specific effect of VTN on IL 6 expression was not due to sex hormones as shown by ovariectomy and castration . IL 6 injection next to the SVZ reversed the MCAO induced increase in neurogenesis seen in VTN mice . Our in vitro and vivo data suggest that plasma VTN activates focal adhesion kinase in the SVZ following MCAO which reduces IL 6 expression in astrocytes but increases it in other cells such as microglia macrophages . Inducible conditional astrocytic FAK deletion increased MCAO induced IL 6 expression in females at 24h and blocked MCAO induced neurogenesis at 14d confirming a key detrimental role of IL 6 . Collectively these data suggest that leakage of VTN into the SVZ reduces the neurogenic response to stroke in female mice by promoting IL 6 expression . Reducing VTN or VTN signaling may be an approach to promote neurogenesis for neuroprotection and cell replacement after stroke in females .

@highlight Vitronectin VTN leaks from blood into the subventricular zone SVZ of adult mice after ischemic stroke.
@highlight VTN inhibits stroke induced SVZ neurogenesis in females but not males by promoting acute expression of SVZ IL 6.
@highlight The female specific VTN induced IL 6 was through activation of FAK signaling but not due to gonadal hormones.
@highlight Astrocytic FAK plays a role in repressing stroke induced IL 6 in females only.
@highlight VTN or VTN signaling may be a good targets for promoting neurogenesis for neuroprotection and cell replacement in females.
