 Modeling experimental traumatic brain injury in rodents is necessarily required to understand the pathophysiological and neurobehavioral consequences of neurotrauma . Numerous models have been developed to study experimental TBI . Fluid percussion injury is the most extensively used model to represent clinical phenotypes . Nevertheless the surgical sham procedure a prerequisite of FPI is the impeding factor in experimental TBI . We hypothesized that if craniectomy causes substantial structural and functional changes in the brain it might mimic the mild FPI induced neurobehavioral dysfunctions . To understand the hypothesis C57BL 6 mice were exposed to lateral FPI at 1.2atm pressure and changes in the neuronal architecture hippocampal neurogenesis neuroinflammation and behavioral functions were compared to the sham and control mice at day 7 post FPI . We observed that both the craniectomy and FPI significantly augmented the ipsilateral hippocampal neurogenesis as evaluated by DCX and Beta III tubulin immunoreactivity . Similarly a significant increase in GFAP and TMEM immunoreactivity in CA1 and CA3 regions showed that craniectomy mimics FPI induced neuroinflammation . The additive damaging effect of craniectomy with FPI was also reported in the term of axonal and dendritic fragmentation swelling and neuronal death using silver staining Fluoro jade and MAP 2 immunoreactivity . Sham exposed mice showed a significant functional decrease in grip strength . Our results indicate that sham craniectomy itself is enough to cause TBI like characteristics and thus fluid percussion at mild pressure is minimally additive with craniectomy . Considering the method as a mixed injury model the net neurotrauma severity should be compared with nave control instead of the sham as it is an outcome of cumulative damage due to fluid pressure and craniectomy . Nevertheless to understand the long term consequences of neurotrauma the extent of recovery in surgical sham may separately be quantified .

@highlight Low pressure fluid percussion minimally adds to craniectomyinduced neurotrauma.
@highlight Craniectomy mimics mild fluid percussion induced neurotrauma.
@highlight Both the craniectomy and fluid percussion augment neurogenesis at the early stage.
@highlight Craniectomy is additively damaging with FPI in term of neurobehavioral changes.
@highlight Craniectomy causes locomotor hyperactivity and neuroinflammation.
