 The persistent unresponsiveness of many of the acquired epilepsies to traditional antiseizure medications has motivated the search for prophylactic drug therapies that could reduce the incidence of epilepsy in this at risk population . These studies are based on the idea of a period of epileptogenesis that can follow a wide variety of brain injuries . Epileptogenesis is hypothesized to involve changes in the brain not initially associated with seizures but which result finally in seizure prone networks . Understanding these changes will provide crucial clues for the development of prophylactic drugs . Using the repeated low dose kainate rat model of epilepsy we have studied the period of epileptogenesis following status epilepticus verifying the latent period with continuous EEG monitoring . Focusing on ultrastructural properties of the tripartite synapse in the CA1 region of hippocampus we found increased astrocyte ensheathment around both the presynaptic and postsynaptic elements reduced synaptic AMPA receptor subunit and perisynaptic astrocyte GLT 1 expression and increased number of docked vesicles at the presynaptic terminal . These findings were associated with an increase in frequency of the mEPSCs observed in patch clamp recordings of CA1 pyramidal cells . The results suggest a complex set of changes some of which have been associated with increasingly excitable networks such as increased vesicles and mEPSC frequency and some associated with compensatory mechanisms such as increased astrocyte ensheathment . The diversity of ultrastructural and electrophysiological changes observed during epileptogeneiss suggests that potential drug targets for this period should be broadened to include all components of the tripartite synapse .

@highlight The elements of ahippocampal tripartite synapse undergo dramatic changes at the ultrastructural level that have electrophysiological correlates after status epilepticu
@highlight Status epilepticus increases the readily releasable pool of vesicles and mEPSC frequency and decreases neuronal glutamate receptor expression
@highlight Following status epilepticus astrocytes have a reduced density of the glutamate transporter Glt 1
@highlight Disease modifying therapies to prevent epilepsy should take into consideration the roles neurons and astrocytes play in circuit excitability.
