 Corneal stromal keratocytes contribute to the maintenance of corneal transparency and shape by synthesizing and degrading extracellular matrix . They are quiescent in the healthy cornea but they become activated in response to insults from the external environment that breach the corneal epithelium with such activation being associated with phenotypic transformation into fibroblasts . Corneal fibroblasts act as sentinel cells to sense various external stimuliincluding damage associated molecular patterns derived from injured cells pathogen associated molecular patterns of infectious microorganisms and inflammatory mediators such as cytokinesunder pathological conditions such as trauma infection and allergy . The expression of various chemokines and adhesion molecules by corneal fibroblasts determines the selective recruitment and activation of inflammatory cells in a manner dependent on the type of insult . In infectious keratitis the interaction of corneal fibroblasts with various components of microbes and with cytokines derived from infiltrated inflammatory cells results in excessive degradation of stromal collagen and consequent corneal ulceration . Corneal fibroblasts distinguish between type 1 and type 2 inflammation through recognition of corresponding cytokines with their activation by type 2 cytokines contributing to the pathogenesis of corneal lesions in severe ocular allergic diseases . Pharmacological targeting of corneal fibroblast function is thus a potential novel therapeutic approach to prevention of excessive corneal stromal inflammation damage and scarring .

@highlight Activation of keratocytes by insults induces their transformation into fibroblasts.
@highlight Corneal fibroblasts act as sentinel cells that sense various external stimuli.
@highlight They selectively recruit inflammatory cells after injury infection or allergy.
@highlight They interact with microbes and inflammatory cells during corneal infection.
@highlight They contribute to the pathogenesis of corneal lesions in ocular allergy.
