 In age related macular degeneration inflammatory events are presumed to contribute to disease development . A primary suspect of this contribution is the microglia the innate immune cell of the retina . In addition retinal pigment epithelium cells can be inflammatorily activated . In this study we investigate the effect of activated RPE cells on retinal microglia and on neuronal cells . RPE cells and microglia were harvested from porcine eyes . In addition a neuronal cell line of human origin was used . For inflammatory activation agonists of toll like receptors in different concentrations were used Pam2CSK4 Polyinosinic polycytidylic acid and lipopolysaccharid . Cell viability was investigated with an MTT assay . The secretion of cytokines was assessed in an ELISA and their expression in real time PCR . There was no effect of the agonists on cell viability in RPE cells . All agonists induced the secretion of IL 6 and IL 8 in RPE cells with the strongest effect induced by LPS . In microglia pro inflammatory stimulation increased the metabolic activity . All agonists induced the secretion of IL 1 IL 8 and TNF in microglia cells while in real time PCR LPS and Pam induced the expression of IL 6 IL 1 and iNOS . Direct stimulation of SHSY 5Y with the agonists induced only minor alterations of viability . Stimulated RPE cell supernatant reduced the secretion of TNF and IL 8 irrespective of the inducing agent in microglia cells . Additionally a slight induction of IL 1 was found in microglia treated with supernatant of RPE cells treated with Pam . In real time PCR the supernatant of RPE cells stimulated with LPS significantly reduced the expression of iNOS and IL 6 but not of IL 1 . Of note the expression of iNOS was also reduced by naive RPE cells . The treatment of the SHSY 5Y with supernatant of microglia previously treated with RPE conditioned medium significantly decreased SHSY 5Y viability with and without pro inflammatory treatment . In conclusion inflammatory activated RPE cells have a regulatory effect on the pro inflammatory activation of microglia stressing the importance of the interaction between these two retinal cell types . Microglia treated with RPE supernatant reduced viability of a neuronal cell line indicating a neurotoxic effect .

@highlight Toll like receptor activation does not impede cell viability in retinal pigment epithelial cells and microglia.
@highlight Toll like receptor agonists induce IL 6 in RPE and IL 1 and TNF in microglia. IL 8 is induced in both cell types.
@highlight The supernatant of activated RPE cells reduce the secretion of TNF and of IL 8 in microglia.
@highlight The supernatant of RPE activated with LPS reduce the expression of IL 6 and the expression of iNOS in microglia cells.
@highlight SHSY 5Y viability is reduced when treated with supernatant of microglia previously treated with RPE cells.
