 Mechanical insult induced by intraocular pressure is likely a driving force in the disease process of glaucoma . This study aimed to evaluate regional displacements in human optic nerve head and peripapillary tissue in response to acute IOP elevations and their correlations with morphological characteristics of the posterior eye . Cross sectional images of the ONH and PPT in 14 globes of 14 human donors were acquired with high frequency ultrasound during whole globe inflation from 5 to 30mm Hg . High frequency ultrasound has a spatial resolution of tens of micrometers and is capable of imaging through the ONH and PPT thickness . Tissue displacements were calculated using a correlation based speckle tracking algorithm for a dense matrix of kernels covering the 2D imaging plane . The ONH was manually segmented in the ultrasound B mode images acquired at 5mmHg based on echogenicity . The lamina cribrosa boundaries were visible in eight of the fourteen eyes and the LC region was segmented using a semi automated superpixel based method . The ONH had larger radial displacement than the PPT in all tested eyes and the difference increased with increasing IOP . A significant negative correlation was found between ONH PPT displacement difference and PPT thickness while no significant correlations were found between ONH PPT displacement difference and other morphological parameters including PPT radius of curvature scleral canal size LC thickness and anterior LC surface depth . Within the ONH the radial displacement decreased in the region anterior to and across LC but not in the region posterior to LC . Finite element models using simplified geometry and material properties confirmed the role of LC in reducing the overall ONH radial displacements but did not predict the displacement gradient change observed experimentally . These results suggested that a thinner PPT may be associated with a larger relative posterior motion of the ONH with respect to the surrounding PPT and the LC may play a major role in preventing excessive posterior displacement of ONH during acute IOP elevations .

@highlight ONH PPT displacement difference at IOP elevation was negatively correlated with PPT thickness.
@highlight Radial displacement decreased in the ONH region anterior to and across LC but plateaued in the region posterior to LC.
@highlight LC may reduce the posterior displacement of ONH during IOP elevation.
