 A major gap in the field of ischemic preconditioning is whether or not long lasting neuroprotection can be achieved . Moreover the specific mechanisms underlying IPC and how they can be translated into the clinic remain uncertain . To fill these gaps we tested the hypothesis that IPC exerts long lasting structural and functional neuroprotection against ischemic stroke through the master gatekeeper of antioxidant defenses nuclear factor erythroid 2 related factor 2 . We also tested whether the brain could be pharmaceutically preconditioned with a potent and blood brain barrier permeable Nrf2 activator 2 cyano 3 12 dioxo oleana 1 9 dien 28 trifluoethyl amide . IPC was induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion for 12min and ischemic stroke was generated by MCAO for 60min in wild type or Nrf2 knockout mice . Sensorimotor function learning memory skills and brain tissue loss were measured up to 35days after stroke . Primary rodent cortical neurons from wildtype and Nrf2 KO mice were subjected to lethal oxygen glucose deprivation or a brief OGD episode as a preconditioning stimulus before OGD . Cell viability death lipid electrophile generation and Nrf2 activation were measured . CDDO TFEA or its vehicle was administered in vivo for three consecutive days before MCAO . Tissue loss and neurological tests were performed 35days after stroke . IPC significantly reduced sensorimotor deficits post stroke cognitive impairments and brain tissue loss 35days after MCAO in WT mice . These enduring protective effects of IPC were inhibited in Nrf2 KO mice . In neuronal cultures PC also endowed primary neurons with ischemic tolerance against OGD induced cell death an effect that was abolished by loss of Nrf2 expression in KO neurons . PC induced the generation of low levels of lipid electrophiles and led to activation of the Nrf2 pathway . The mechanism underlying IPC may be translatable as exogenous administration of the Nrf2 activator CDDO TFEA significantly reduced neurological dysfunction and ischemic brain damage after MCAO . IPC provides long lasting neuroprotection against ischemic brain injury and post stroke cognitive dysfunction . Nrf2 activation plays a key role in this beneficial outcome and is a promising therapeutic target for the attenuation of ischemic brain injury .

@highlight IPC provides long lasting protection against sensorimotor and cognitive impairments and tissue loss after ischemic stroke.
@highlight IPC afforded neuroprotection is reduced in Nrf2 knockout mice.
@highlight Mechanistically IPC induces sublethal generation of lipid electrophiles leading to endogenous activation of Nrf2 pathway.
@highlight Pharmacological activation of Nrf2 provides a similar degree of long term protection in translational studies.
@highlight Nrf2 is a promising therapeutic target with enduring protective effects against ischemic stroke.
