 Keratins are the forming units of intermediate filaments that provide mechanical support and formation of desmosomes between cells and hemi desmosomes with basement membranes for epithelium integrity . Keratin IF are polymers of obligate heterodimer consisting one type I keratin and one type II keratin molecules . There are 54 functional keratin genes in human genome which are classified into three major groups i.e . epithelial keratins hair follicle cell specific epithelial keratins and hair keratins . Their expression is cell type specific and developmentally regulated . Corneal epithelium expresses a subgroup of keratins similar to those of epidermal epithelium . Limbal basal stem cells express K5 K14 and K8 K18 and K8 K19 IF suggesting that there probably are two populations of limbal stem cells . In human LSCs at limbal basal layer can directly stratify and differentiate to limbal suprabasal cells that express K3 K12 IF or centripetally migrate then differentiate to corneal basal transient amplifying cells that co express both K3 K12 and K5 K14 prior to moving upward and assuming suprabasal cells phenotype of only K3 K12 expression that signifies corneal type epithelium differentiation . In rodent the differentiated cornea epithelial cells express K5 K12 in lieu of K3 K12 because K3 allele exists as a pseudogene and does not encode a functional K3 protein . The basal corneal cells of new born mice originate from surface ectoderm during embryonic development slowly commit to differentiation of becoming TAC co expressing K5 K12 and K5 K14 IF . However the centripetal migration may still occur at a slower rate in young mice which is accelerated during wound healing . In this review we will discuss and compare the corneaspecific keratins expression patterns between corneal and epidermal epithelial cells during mouse development and between human and mouse during development and homeostasis in adult and pathology caused by a mutation of keratins .

@highlight K3 K12 IF is the characteristics of cornea type epithelium differentiation in human.
@highlight Rodent
@highlight allele is a pseudogene thus K5 K12 IF signified the murine corneal type epithelium differentiation.
@highlight There are two populations of limbal stem cells that express K5 K14 or K8 K18 K19 IF.
@highlight Missense keratin mutation is autosomal dominant nonsense keratin mutation is autosomal recessive.
