 In humans the majority of sustained traumatic brain injuries are classified as mild and most often a result of a closed head injury . The effects of a non penetrating CHI are not benign and may lead to chronic pathology and behavioral dysfunction which could be worsened by repeated head injury . Clinical neuropathological correlation studies provide evidence that conversion of tau into abnormally phosphorylated proteotoxic intermediates could be part of the pathophysiology triggered by a single TBI and enhanced by repeated TBIs . However the link between p tau and CHI in rodents remains controversial . To address this question experimentally we induced a single CHI or two CHIs to WT or rTg4510 mice . We found that 2 CHI increased tau phosphorylation in WT mice and rTg4510 mice . Behavioral characterization in WT mice found chronic deficits in the radial arm water maze in 2 CHI mice that had partially resolved in the 1 CHI mice . Moreover using Manganese Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging with R1 mapping a novel functional neuroimaging technique we found greater deficits in the rTg4510 mice following 2 CHI compared to 1 CHI . To integrate our findings with prior work in the field we conducted a systematic review of rodent mild repetitive CHI studies . Following Prisma guidelines we identified 25 original peer reviewed papers . Results from our experiments as well as our systematic review provide compelling evidence that tau phosphorylation is modified by experimental mild TBI studies however changes in p tau levels are not universally reported . Together our results provide evidence that repetitive TBIs can result in worse and more persistent neurological deficits compared to a single TBI but the direct link between the worsened outcome and elevated p tau could not be established .

@highlight Chronic cognitive deficits are worsened following repetitive CHIs in WT mice.
@highlight Functional neuroimaging deficits were found in the rTg4510 mice following a repetitive but not single CHI.
@highlight Evidence that p tau was a driver in the repetitive CHI phenotypes could not be established.
