 The avascular cornea trabecular meshwork and lens obtain iron an essential biometal from the aqueous humor . The mechanism by which this exchange is regulated however is unclear . Recently we reported that non pigmented ciliary epithelial cells express ferroportin an iron export protein modulated by hepcidin the master regulator of iron homeostasis secreted mainly by the liver . Here we explored whether ciliary epithelial and other cells in the anterior segment synthesize hepcidin suggesting local regulation of iron exchange at this site . Human and bovine eyes were dissected to isolate the ciliary body corneal endothelial TM lens epithelial and outer epithelial cell layer of the iris . Total mRNA and protein lysates were processed to evaluate the synthesis and expression of hepcidin the iron regulatory peptide hormone Fpn the only known iron export protein ceruloplasmin a ferroxidase necessary for iron export transferrin receptor a major iron uptake protein and ferritin a major iron storage protein . A combination of techniques including reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction of total mRNA Western blotting of protein lysates and immunofluorescence of fixed tissue sections were used to accomplish these goals . RT PCR of isolated tissue samples revealed hepcidin specific mRNA in the CB TM CE and LE of the bovine eye . Western blotting of protein lysates from these tissues showed reactivity for hepcidin Fpn ferritin and TfR . Western blotting and immunohistochemistry of similar tissues isolated from cadaveric human eyes showed expression of hepcidin Fpn and Cp in these samples . Notably Fpn and Cp were expressed on the basolateral membrane of non pigmented ciliary epithelial cells facing the AH . Synthesis and expression of hepcidin and Fpn in the ciliary epithelium suggests local regulation of iron transport from choroidal plexus in the ciliary body to the AH across the blood aqueous barrier . Expression of hepcidin and Fpn in CE TM and LE cells indicates additional regulation of iron exchange between the AH and cornea TM and lens suggesting autonomous regulation of iron homeostasis in the anterior segment . Physiological and pathological implications of these observations are discussed .

@highlight Hepcidin is synthesized locally by cells of the anterior eye segment AS .
@highlight Co expression of ferroportin suggests autonomous regulation of iron in the AS.
@highlight Hepcidin is upregulated by IL6 implicating iron in inflammation of the AS.
