 Intracerebral hemorrhage patients frequently encounter cardiovascular complications which may contribute to increased mortality and poor long term outcome . ICH induces systemic oxidative stress and activates peripheral immune responses which are involved in the pathological cascade leading to cardiac dysfunction and heart failure after ICH . We have previously reported that ICH induces progressive cardiac dysfunction in mice without primary cardiac diseases . In this study we have investigated the role of immune response in mediating cardiac dysfunction post ICH in mice . Adult male C57BL 6J mice were randomly assigned to the following groups or chronic cardiac dysfunction . ICH induces significant neurological and cognitive deficits as well as acute and chronic cardiac dysfunction compared to sham control mice . Mice subjected to ICH Spx exhibit significantly improved neurological and cognitive function compared to ICH mice . Mice with ICH Spx also exhibit significantly improved acute and chronic cardiac function compared to ICH mice indicated by increased left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular fractional shortening decreased cardiac fibrosis decreased cardiomyocyte hypertrophy decreased cardiac infiltration of immune cells and decreased expression of inflammatory factor and oxidative stress in the heart . Our study demonstrates that splenectomy attenuates ICH induced neurological and cognitive impairment as well as ICH induced cardiac dysfunction in mice . Inflammatory cell infiltration into heart and immune responses mediated by the spleen may contribute to ICH induce acute and chronic cardiac dysfunction and pathological cardiac remodeling .

@highlight ICH increases cardiac deficit splenectomy attenuates ICH induced cardiac dysfunction in mice.
@highlight Splenectomy decreases inflammatory cell infiltration into heart and reduces oxidative stress in the heart of ICH mice.
@highlight Splenectomy attenuates neurological and cognitive impairment induced by ICH in mice.
@highlight Spleen associated immune response mediates brain heart interaction after ICH in mice.
