 To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of a speech bulb with an intensive speech therapy program in hypernasal participants with cleft palate . Twenty hypernasal speakers with cleft palate who were wearing speech bulbs underwent an intensive speech therapy program of 45 sessions over 3 weeks . Three experienced speech language pathologists rated the participants speech recordings before and after intensive speech therapy with and without the speech bulb . Nasometric recordings and long term averaged spectra were also analyzed using repeated measures ANOVAs . The ANOVA of the hypernasality ratings showed significant effects of therapy 15.97 p .001 speech bulb and a therapy speech bulb interaction effect 22.30 p 0.001 . The most favorable listener ratings of hypernasality were obtained post therapy when participants were wearing their speech bulbs . Without the speech bulb intensive speech therapy by itself did not result in a significant improvement . With speech bulb nasalance scores for high 14.07 p .001 and low pressure 14.84 p .001 sentences were significantly lower post therapy providing preliminary evidence that an intensive speech therapy program may enhance the effect of a speech bulb . Before and after comparisons of individual nasalance profiles demonstrated variable improvement in 15 participants no progress in 2 participants and more severe hypernasality after therapy in 3 participants . Long term averaged spectra corroborated the findings of the perceptual analysis . Based on a frequency bin from 201 to 300Hz there was a significant within subject effect for with and without speech bulb 4.54 p .047 as well as for before vs. after session 7.14 p .015 . The speech bulb in combination with intensive speech therapy resulted in improved oral nasal balance for the majority of participants . More research is needed to investigate long term outcomes as well as individual factors contributing to therapy success .

@highlight Intensive speech therapy associated with a speech bulb can reduce hypernasality.
@highlight Nasometry and spectrography can be used to corroborate perceptual findings.
@highlight A new method for spectrography of oral nasal balance disorders is presented.
