 Stuttering and speech sound disorder may co occur during early childhood although the exact rate of comorbidity in a community cohort sample remains unknown . In isolation both disorders have the potential for long term negative effects . Comorbidity rates of 16 46 reported in previous studies were based on parent report speech language therapist surveys case file audits or direct observation studies from clinical samples . Rigorous methodology utilising a prospective longitudinal community cohort design is required to support these previous findings . First to identify the proportion of children with comorbid stuttering and speech sound disorder at 4 years of age drawn from a community cohort study . Second to compare demographic and clinical features of this comorbid diagnosis group compared to children with no diagnosis of either disorder or those with either disorder in isolation . Participants were drawn from a prospective longitudinal community cohort study at 4 years of age Of the 160 children diagnosed with stuttering between 2 and 4 years of age 6.88 The prevalence of comorbid stuttering and speech sound disorder was lower in a community cohort compared to that reported in clinical studies . Higher rates reported in clinical samples may be due to increased parental help seeking behaviour when the two disorders co occur . Subsequently these children may present to clinics more frequently . Accurate representation of prevalence allows for population specific research on best practice assessment and intervention . Currently little is known about how best to manage this caseload therefore more research is required in this area including the determination of prognostic variables to provide efficient and effective management .

@highlight Community cohort prevalence of comorbid stuttering and SSD was 0.68 .
@highlight Clinical prevalence was 6.88 11 160 children who stuttered also had a SSD .
@highlight Clinical prevalence is lower than previously reported between 1646 .
@highlight Overall sample size was small with a large number of comparisons conducted.
@highlight Not enough evidence suggesting significant differences across most comparisons.
