 Acoustic measurements have shown that the speech of hearing impaired children deviates from the speech of normally hearing peers . The aim of the present study is to examine whether listeners with varying degrees of experience with childrens speech perceive a difference in the overall speech quality of seven year old NH children and their HI peers who received a device before the age of two . Short speech samples of seven children with NH seven children with an acoustic hearing aid and seven children with a cochlear implant were judged by three groups of listeners in a comparative judgement task . In this task listeners compared stimuli in pairs and decided which stimulus sounded better leading to a ranking of the stimuli according to their overall speech quality . The ranking showed that the overall speech quality differed considerably for HI and NH children . The latter group had a significantly higher overall speech quality than HI children . In the group of HI children children with CI were ranked higher than children with HA . Moreover length of device use was found to have a significant effect in the group of children with CI longer device experience led to better ratings . This effect was significantly less strong in HA children . No significant differences were found between the three groups of listeners . Listeners agree that the speech of NH children sounds better than the speech of HI children . This result indicates that even after almost seven years of device use the speech of HI children still differs from the speech of NH children . The overall speech quality of CI children was better than that of HA children and this effect increased with longer device use . No effect of listeners experience with childrens speech was established .

@highlight Speech quality of hearing impaired and normally hearing children differs.
@highlight Seven years of device use do not suffice to reach the same speech quality level.
@highlight Cochlear implanted children perform better with increased length of device use.
@highlight Speech quality perception is comparable for experienced and inexperienced listeners.
@highlight Comparative judgement is a feasible alternative to traditional rating scales.
