 Speech is one of the primary outcomes in individuals with a cleft of the palate with or without a cleft of the lip . Therefore it is highly important to obtain information regarding parental perceptions and expectations concerning speech therapy related cleft care . Literature investigating these parental perspectives is scarce . The present study investigated perceptions and expectations of parents of children with CP L concerning speech therapy . Eleven parents of nine children with CP L were recruited from the multidisciplinary craniofacial team at the Ghent University hospital . A qualitative design using semi structured interviews was used to collect data . Data were managed using NVIVO software version 10 and analyzed thematically . The analysis resulted in three major themes service provision patient centered care and seeking health care . Each of these identified themes were divided into three subthemes . Service provision included the effectiveness of the provided service interdisciplinary collaboration and expertise of the speech therapist . Information provision child friendly attitude and connection were categorized under patient centered care . Seeking health care included affordability practical considerations and the selection of a speech therapist . The most prominent expectation of the parents was that they wanted to see their children progress during the speech intervention . This finding supported the importance of experienced and specialized speech language pathologists in the provision of care to children with a CP L. Moreover the results showed that the majority of the parents wanted more clear and comprehensive information particularly about the treatment progress the transfer to the home environment and the prognosis . The present findings might aid SLPs and more generally all health professionals in gaining insight into parental perceptions and expectations concerning speech therapy related cleft care . Thereby treatment quality might be improved .

@highlight Parents wanted to see their children progress as a result of the treatment.
@highlight Parents want more clear accurate and comprehensive information from the SLP.
@highlight Parents expect SLPs to have sufficient experience when treating a specific population.
