 The present study aimed to assess the effectiveness of a physiologic voice therapy program based on different semioccluded vocal tract exercises in subjects with behavioral dysphonia . Thirty four participants with behavioral dysphonia were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups 1 voice treatment with physiologic voice therapy plus vocal hygiene program and 2 vocal hygiene program only . Laryngoscopic assessment was performed in all subjects . Before and after voice therapy participants underwent aerodynamic electroglottographic and acoustic assessment . The Voice Handicap Index Voice symptom scale Vocal tract discomfort scale and self assessment of resonant voice quality were also performed . The treatment included eight voice therapy sessions . For the experimental group the exercises consisted of a sequence of seven phonatory tasks performed with four different semioccluded vocal tract exercises . Comparison for all variables were performed between experimental group and control group . Wilcoxon test showed significant improvements for experimental group for VHI VoiSs VTDS and self perception of resonant voice quality . Significant decrease for experimental groups was observed on subglottic pressure phonation threshold pressure and glottal airflow across the implemented tasks . Physiologic voice therapy based on semioccluded vocal tract exercises seems to be an effective tool to improve voice in subjects diagnosed with behavioral dysphonia . Apparently most changes should be expected in variables related to physical and functional aspects compared to objective variables . Subglottic pressure and phonation threshold pressure seem to be the most change sensitive parameters and they may reflect a reduction in phonatory effort reported by patients after voice therapy .

@highlight Semioccluded vocal tract exercises seem to be effective for voice function.
@highlight Water resistance therapy helps reducing voice complaints.
@highlight Physiologic therapy improves physical and functional features of voice.
@highlight Phonation threshold pressure reveals a reduction in phonatory effort after therapy.
