 Children with developmental language disorder appear to be challenged with word reading problems in a number of ways yet few investigations in this area are known . Of interest in this exploratory study was how children with DLD decode and recognize words and word parts with irregular graphemic properties . Sixty children with DLD and typical language in 2nd5th grade and 19 college aged adults were asked to decode individual phonograms words and pseudowords and to identify phonogram forms in a recognition task . Responses were categorized as either reflecting graphophonemic or target or unrelated or incorrect responses . According to logistic regression analyses children with DLD at each grade level used higher levels of serial letter sound correspondences in their decoded productions of isolated phonograms real and pseudowords relative to their grade matched peers with TLD and to adults . DLD2 and TLD1 groups performed similarly across the three production tasks . Results on the phonogram recognition task reflected mixed patterns of responding across child and adult groups . Overall DLD participants made more LS only selections than did TLD participants although DLD and TLD 4th5th graders performed similarly to each other in their relative selections of target versus target LS phonogram forms . Children with DLD appear to demonstrate protracted stages of graphophonemic serial decoding . A gradual catching up trend seems to occur over 2nd5th grades on certain aspects of decoding . A number of developmental considerations and clinical implications for children with DLD are drawn from this study .

@highlight Children with DLD use more serial decoding than chunking of opaque phonogram forms.
@highlight Children with DLD serially decode more words and pseudowords than typical peers.
@highlight Children with DLD recognize English phonograms based on letter sound properties.
@highlight How do 2nd5th grade children with and without DLD compare to college aged adults in phonogram decoding and recognition.
