 In addition to anatomical and physiological problems children with a cleft palate often face psychosocial difficulties . A complex interaction between patient and environment may induce these problems . Based on the literature speech disorders may negatively influence a listeners judgement of a speaker . Therefore the aim of the present study was to investigate the attitudes of peers toward the speech of children with CP L. Sixty nine typically developing children judged audio recorded speech samples of nine children with CP L and three control children based on three attitude components i.e . cognitive affective and behavioral . A speech intelligibility percentage was determined for each speaker based on transcriptions by 23 nave adult listeners . Furthermore two speech language pathologists perceptually rated the degrees of hypernasality nasal airflow and articulation errors . A correlation was calculated between the attitude components and the speech intelligibility percentage and the attitude components and perceptual judgements . Additionally the possible influence of age and gender of the listeners on their attitudes was explored . A significantly positive correlation was found between the speech intelligibility percentage and the attitude components when a child was understood better more positive attitudes were measured . A significantly negative correlation was found between perceptual judgements and all attitudes components presence of more hypernasality nasal airflow or articulation errors resulted in more negative attitudes . Furthermore boys and younger children seem to have more negative attitudes compared to girls and older children . This study provides additional evidence that peers show more negative attitudes toward children with more speech disorders due to CP L. Further research may explore the possible impact of age and gender on attitudes of peers . Intervention should focus on changing the cognitive affective and behavioral attitudes of peers in a more positive direction and encouraging the psychosocial development of children with CP L .

@highlight Peers show more negative attitudes toward children with less intelligible speech.
@highlight Boys show more negative attitudes compared to girls.
@highlight Young children show more negative attitudes compared to older children.
@highlight Intervention should focus on cognitive affective and behavioral attitudes of peers.
