 Cleft lip and or palate is the most common congenital craniofacial condition . Children born with CL P are at increased risk of persistent speech difficulties related to velopharyngeal incompetence and compensatory articulation problems . It has also been reported that they achieve poorer results academically than their peers . There is a further body of evidence to suggest delayed language skills . These potentially related outcomes are often reported separately . To review published and unpublished research into the nature of difficulties related to spoken and written language across all non syndromic cleft diagnoses . To review any evidence of associations between comorbidities . A scoping review was carried out in October 2016 and updated in June 2019 following published methodology . A search of the literature over the two time points found 38 papers in total . Three main themes were found oral language skills reading and auditory processing difficulties . There is evidence of early language delay in children born with CL P. Evidence of persistent oral language problems is less conclusive . Many studies have reported scores within the average range for language auditory processing and reading but poorer outcomes when compared to non cleft control groups . However studies have used a range of outcome measures making comparisons difficult . Moreover there is no clear evidence how these difficulties might relate to speech outcomes or educational achievement and no comparison to other populations with speech language and communication needs .

@highlight International review of language and auditory processing skills in the cleft palate population.
@highlight Poorer outcomes in language and auditory processing compared with non cleft peers.
@highlight Scores on standardized tests of language frequently fall within the normal range.
@highlight Limited correlations of skills in speech language and auditory processing.
@highlight Lack of longitudinal data and comparison to other communication disorders.
