 Stuttering affects people in individual ways and there are multiple factors which may influence a persons goals when seeking therapy . Even though there is a common consensus that speech language pathologists should discuss the individuals goals and expectations for stuttering therapy and outcomes few studies have systematically investigated this issue . This study is part of a wider ranging treatment study of individualized stuttering management tailored to the participants personal goals and preferences . A mixed method multiple single case design was used to address the research questions . Twenty one adults age 2161 years took part in a pretherapy interview which also included two quantitative measures the Client Preferences for Stuttering Therapy Extended version and the Overall Assessment of Speakers Experience of Stuttering Adult version . Findings from the study sample was compared with a Norwegian reference group in order to check for the representativeness of the study sample . Quantitative data showed that most participants wanted to focus on both physical and psychological aspects of therapy and that 95 considered to gain a sense of control over the stuttering as important . Participants perspectives on their speaking ability and stuttering interference in communication were identified as central factors particularly in social and professional settings . These outcomes aligned well with the finding of avoidance behaviors such as avoiding words and speaking situations . Qualitative data identified four main areas that the participants wanted to improve speech fluency emotional functioning activity and participation and understanding of their stuttering . The study confirms that multiple and individual factors may influence the persons goals for therapy . Goals were mainly anchored in participants wish of better coping in real world settings . A high degree of avoidance behavior was reported suggesting that anxiety and in particular linguistic related anxiety needs to be taken into account when addressing social anxiety in fluency disorders .

@highlight Identifies a multifactorial individualized approach to the treatment of adult stuttering.
@highlight Describes the alignment of a client centered approach to agreed outcomes.
@highlight Uses a mixed method design to explore participants therapy goals.
@highlight Highlights the need to consider individual differences when planning treatment.
@highlight Therapeutic goals were based on the principles of coping in real life settings.
