 Prior studies have documented an adverse impact of stuttering on young childrens lives . These studies have relied primarily on parent reports though different caregivers may have unique experiences with children . To date no study has examined teachers perceptions of the impact in children below six years of age . Moreover the agreement between mothers fathers and teachers in proxy ratings of impact has not been examined . Caregiver agreement is important to investigate because results from varying assessments of adverse impact can influence treatment recommendations . This study sought to gain an integrated insight into 1 teachers perceptions and descriptions of the impact of stuttering on young children and 2 agreement in mothers fathers and teachers perceptions of how stuttering affects young children . The mothers fathers and teachers of 35 young children who stutter completed the Overall Assessment of the Speakers Experience of Stuttering Caregivers when reporting on observable impact while agreement was low on ratings of internal impact . The finding that teachers also perceive stuttering to have an adverse effect on young children adds to the literature of impact particularly because the teachers reported observing impact in situations that are unique to the kindergarten setting . In line with previous literature on proxy reporting our results indicate good agreement between caregivers observing the children in the same arena and fair agreement between caregivers observing the children in different arenas . The results indicate that information from more than one caregiver can contribute to an integrated assessment of impact across arenas .

@highlight Teachers perceive young children to be affected by stuttering.
@highlight Mothers and fathers ratings of overall impact indicate good agreement.
@highlight Parents and teachers ratings of overall impact indicate fair agreement.
@highlight Agreement was high on ratings of observable impact and low on ratings of internal impact.
