 The purpose of the study was to determine whether listeners were less likely to believe a statement that is produced in an atypical voice as compared to a typical voice . It was hypothesized that an atypical voice characterized by abnormal roughness strain and pitch would elicit increased skepticism . This hypothesis was based on previous evidence that there are negative stereotypes against individuals who have a voice disorder and that increased difficulty processing an utterance can lead to disbelief . In Experiment 1 36 listeners rated obscure trivia statements as definitely false probably false probably true or definitely true . The statements were produced by a speaker who used their typical voice and simulated an atypical voice as well as two additional control speakers with typical voices . Experiment 2 was a replication of Experiment 1 with a new set of 36 listeners and a new set of speakers . In addition Experiment 2 examined whether reduced credibility was due to negative stereotypes and or processing difficulty through questionnaire data and correlation analyses . The results were largely consistent with the hypothesis that statements produced in an atypical voice would be perceived as less credible . In both experiments the percentage of definitely false ratings was higher for the atypical voice than for the typical voice and control voices with a large effect size in Experiment 1 and a medium effect size in Experiment 2 . Further Experiment 2 suggested that reduced credibility was due to negative stereotypes but not processing difficulty . The current study reveals a social consequence of having a voice disorder i.e . decreased perceived credibility with implications for job related success .

@highlight Trivia statements were rated as definitely false more often when produced in an atypical voice.
@highlight Study introduces a new method for assessing perceptions of people with a communication disorder.
@highlight Findings suggest that having a voice disorder can reduce perceived credibility.
@highlight Findings have negative implications for job related success.
