 There is a lack of studies investigating articulation skills in bilingual children with a migration background . Therefore the present study compared articulation skills in bilingual Turkish Dutch Moroccan Arabic Dutch children with migration background and monolingual Dutch children without migration background . Moreover possible factors influencing articulation skills were determined . 15 bilingual Turkish Dutch 15 bilingual Moroccan Arabic Dutch and an age and gender matched group consisting of 15 monolingual Dutch children all aged between 6 and 7 years and living in Flanders were included in the present study . Articulation was evaluated using a picture naming test . Speech samples were transcribed phonetically and articulatory analysis including a phonetic inventory and phonetic and phonological analyses was performed . The phonetic analysis made a distinction between distortions substitutions additions and omissions . For the phonological analysis a distinction between syllable structure processes substitution processes and assimilation processes was made . Moreover parents were administered a self report questionnaire to determine possible factors influencing articulation skills . A statistically significant difference in additions was found when comparing the three groups . Interestingly both the Turkish Dutch and Moroccan Arabic Dutch groups used additions that were not present in the Dutch group and . Concerning phonological analysis it was found that deletions of final consonants were more present in the bilingual groups compared to the monolingual group . Moreover statistically significant effects of origin home language and language preference of the child were found on presence of both phonetic errors and phonological disorders . Findings of the present study showed that some phonetic errors and phonological processes were more present in the group of bilingual children with migration background compared to the group of monolingual children without migration background . Interestingly phonetic errors and phonological processes were more present when the child had a Turkish origin or when the dominant language at the home environment was Turkish or when the preferred language of the child was Turkish . Given the increased attention to migration findings of the present study are highly important for speech language pathologists teachers and more generally all professionals working with bilingual populations with a Moroccan Arabic or Turkish migration background .

@highlight Turkish origin was found to influence presence of phonetic phonological processes
@highlight Turkish as dominant language was found to influence presence of phonetic phonological processes
@highlight Turkish as preferred language was found to influence presence of phonetic phonological processes
@highlight Some phonetic phonological processes were more present in the group of bilingual children
