 To investigate the latent factors underlying signs of childhood apraxia of speech in a group of 57 children with CAS . The speech of 57 children with CAS was coded for signs of CAS . All participants showed at least five signs of CAS and were judged to have CAS by speech pathologists experienced in pediatric speech disorders . Participants were selected to represent a range of severity of CAS 30 children were verbal and 27 were minimally verbal with comorbid autism . Participants scores for each sign were converted to z scores then entered as variables into an exploratory factor analysis . Models were compared using the Akaike Information Criterion . The three factor model had the lowest AIC and best fit the data . After oblique rotation syllable segmentation slow rate and stress errors loaded most highly on Factor 1 . Groping addition of phonemes other than schwa and difficulty with coarticulation loaded most highly on Factor 2 . Variable errors loaded most highly on Factor 3 . Thus factors were interpreted as being associated with prosody coarticulation and inconsistency . Results are consistent with the three consensus criteria for CAS from the American Speech Language Hearing Association Inappropriate prosody disrupted coarticulatory transitions and inconsistent errors on repeated tokens . High loading of the syllable segmentation sign on the inappropriate prosody factor also supports the use of a pause related biomarker for CAS .

@highlight Childhood Apraxia of Speech CAS is identified in part by a list of abnormal speech features.
@highlight Those signs presumably arise from a smaller number of underlying processes.
@highlight Signs were identified in the speech of a diverse group of verbal and minimally verbal children with CAS.
@highlight An exploratory factor analysis revealed that those signs derived from three latent unmeasured variables.
@highlight Latent variables reflected the three consensus criteria for CAS from the American Speech Language Hearing Association.
