 This study reports outcomes from a stuttering therapy approach that combines value and awareness based elements from Acceptance and Commitment Therapy with those of stuttering and speech modification interventions . The approach entitled Eighteen adults age 2161 years took part in an A B A multiple case study design . Participants underwent a pre clinic assessment phase followed by 10 h of therapy over four sessions administered by an experienced speech language therapist . Outcome measures examined both psychosocial and behavioral aspects of therapy three six and twelve months post therapy . Most participants chose elements from at least four of the five areas of focus . There was a significant reduction in the impact of stuttering at both 6 and 12 months post therapy with moderate Findings indicate that MIST can be effective in managing adult stuttering . The findings highlight the importance of shared decision making and personal considerations using flexible therapy approaches that integrate stuttering and speech modification interventions with value and awareness based skills . The nature of a multidimensional individualized approach as shown in this study highlights the importance of adjusting the relative weighting of different subcomponents according to each individuals needs and goals . MIST was shown to be efficacious in clinical settings and effective in real life settings . Findings were promising despite a relatively small sample and replication by other SLPs and with larger samples is warranted .

@highlight Identifies outcomes from a new Multidimensional Individualized Stuttering Therapy approach to the management of adult stuttering.
@highlight Emphasizes the need to consider individual differences when planning treatment.
@highlight Identifies how this approach can be applied flexibly from client to client.
@highlight Explains the basis of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy ACT approach to stuttering.
@highlight Demonstrates the advantages in combining elements from ACT with components from stuttering and speech modification approaches.
