 To examine the effectiveness of face to face interventions models of service delivery and psychological treatments combined with speech focused interventions for adults who stutter . Five electronic databases and three clinical trial registries were searched . Systematic reviews randomised controlled trials and studies that applied an intervention with adults who stutter were included . Pharmaceutical interventions were excluded . Primary outcomes included a measure of stuttering severity . Risk of bias assessment was conducted on included studies and overall quality of the evidence was graded . Five RCTS four registered trials and three systematic reviews met inclusion criteria . Intervention approaches included speech restructuring programs and transcranial direct current stimulation . One study investigated cognitive behaviour therapy alongside speech restructuring . Overall studies were classified low risk of bias and good quality . Speech restructuring was included in all but one study and had the most evidence i.e . supported by the greatest number of RCTs . On average stuttering frequency was reduced by 5057 using speech restructuring approaches . No study reduced stuttering to the same level as community controls who dont stutter . The study on tDCS reduced stuttering frequency by 2227 . Speech restructuring delivered via telehealth was non inferior to face to face intervention . One study reported CBT was an effective adjunct to speech restructuring interventions . Speech restructuring interventions were found to reduce stuttering in adults however degree and maintenance of fluency varied . The body of evidence surrounding tDCS and psychological interventions is limited . Replication studies should be considered .

@highlight Speech restructuring to reduce stuttering was supported by the most number of RCTs
@highlight Interventions via telehealth are non inferior to face to face but more RCTs needed
@highlight Evidence that CBT combined with speech restructuring improves outcomes is limited
@highlight Emerging interventions include transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS 
@highlight The quality of the evidence for included studies were rated low risk of bias
