 The purpose of this study was to gain a deeper understanding of the experience of people who stutter as they navigate through the growth process from concealment to openness . Twelve adults who stutter who are active in self help support groups for stuttering described their experiences of concealment and openness in a semi structured interview . Purposeful selection was utilized to recruit participants who could comment thoughtfully on previous concealing but became more open about their stuttering . A phenomenological approach was utilized to gain a deeper understanding of how people who stutter experience the transition from concealment to openness regarding their stuttering and identity . Thematic analysis contributed to identification of themes and subthemes describing participants experiences . Participants described precursors to concealment that led to hiding and avoidance which grew in strength until they reached a turning point . They then changed how they related to their stuttering by changing their behaviors and perceptions of stuttering which led to increased openness about their identity . This process of continued adaptation to stuttering was ongoing and non linear but suggested general trends from concealment to more openness over time . Level of openness was impacted by situational context and individual differences . The findings extend our understanding of how people who stutter navigate transitions from concealment to openness . This deeper understanding could be helpful in explaining the complexities involved in managing the identity of a person who stutters and the process of adapting to living with stuttering over time .

@highlight The experience of the transition from concealment to openness was investigated.
@highlight A phenomenological approach was used to understand experiences of those who stutter.
@highlight Participants reported a general progression from more concealment to more openness.
@highlight The process was not entirely linear over time and regression was reported.
@highlight Openness is a continuum of behavior dependent on environment and personal factors.
