 The effectiveness of telepractice in stuttering therapy in Turkey may be unclear but there is good evidence for the efficaciousness of it from other countries e.g . Australia . The purpose of the present study is to compare the outcomes of telepractice and in person therapy delivery on traditional stuttering treatment and explore telepractice stuttering therapy experience in Turkey . 20 adults who stutter participated in the study . Half the participants received treatment via telepractice while the others were provided with services in clinic . Based on a convergent parallel mixed method research quantitative and qualitative data were collected in parallel analyzed separately and then combined . Study 1 included a non inferiority controlled trial repeated measures quasiexperimental design . Within the scope of the quantitative research the objective clinical data including the scale and assessment scores were collected from two groups in three stages . Study 2 used the phenomenology approach to assess the qualitative aspects of our study . According to the quantitative findings in Study 1 the effectiveness of telepractice and in person in the post test and follow up is not significantly different . The following themes emerged out of the qualitative data analysis in Study 2 expectation telepractice participant suitability and advantages of telepractice technology therapy techniques and clinician skills therapeutic components satisfaction and preference . The triangulation of quantitative and qualitative findings indicated that these data sets were compatible in general . The results show that telepractice is equally effective as the in person method as a service delivery method for adults who stutter .

@highlight Considering the quantitative findings the telepractice and in person groups showed a performance on an equivalent level.
@highlight The greatest majority of the participants reported that they had adapted to telepractice and that this method was appropriate for them.
@highlight For the clinician loss of time cost and effort occurred more than expected for telepractice service.
@highlight Some qualifications such as experience psychological factors and lifestyle have emerged as suitable candidate criteria for telepractice.
@highlight This method can be a great alternative to in person services i.e. in rural areas or during global disasters like the current COVID 19 pandemic.
