 Comprehensive assessment of stuttering requires consideration of a wide range of behaviors that impact outcomes and the Overall Assessment of the Speakers Experience of Stuttering is an assessment tool that accomplishes such . The purpose of this study was to determine how the individual components of the test contribute to the OASES impact score . Data collected at a university speech language and hearing clinic from 29 adults were used for a relative weight analysis . RWA was utilized to determine the relative contributions of the OASES subtests to the OASES impact score . Confidence intervals for the individual relative weights were calculated for each OASES subtest and significance tests based on bootstrapping with 10 000 replications . Differences were present in contributions of the OASES subtests to the OASES overall impact score where the following explained a significant amount of variance in the OASES impact score Speakers Reactions Daily Communication and Quality of Life . However contribution of the subtest General Information was not significant . Through examination of relative contributions to the impact of stuttering using the OASES this project has identified differences in contributors to the overall impact of the disorder of stuttering . This information is beneficial to researchers and clinicians alike in that it gives specific guidance into what determines increased impact in adults who stutter . Future works should pursue clarification of these differences with an end goal of identifying and overcoming barriers to positive outcomes while also identifying and nurturing facilitators to optimal management .

@highlight Differences in relative contributions to the variance in the OASES overall impact score were found in adults who stutter..
@highlight General Information was the only subtest that did not contribute significantly to the variance in the impact score.
@highlight Relative Weight Analysis provides an alternative analysis when multicollinearity of predictor variables is present.
