 Sensorimotor synchronization has been used in the rehabilitation of gait yet much remains unknown regarding the optimal use of this technique . The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that adding small amounts of variability to the motion of a vertically oscillating treadmill would affect the behavior of healthy walkers . Sixteen young adults walked on a treadmill and pneumatically actuated platform for one control trial and eight trials in which the walking surface oscillated in the vertical direction under different conditions of variability . During the oscillation trials the mean frequency of oscillation was equal to the preferred step frequency of the participant but each individual cycle period was allowed to vary within a pre determined range from 0 to 25 of the mean cycle period . The amount of variance of each cycle period within each condition was drawn randomly from a white noise generator . Synchronization was improved when a small amount of noise was added to the platform motion but synchronization significantly decreased at higher levels of noise . Coefficient of variation of stride duration was relatively unchanged at lower levels of variability but increased significantly at higher levels of variability . Statistical persistence of stride duration was significantly reduced during all trials with vertical oscillation relative to normal walking but was not significantly altered by variability in the treadmill oscillation . These results suggest that the addition of a small amount of random variability to the cycle period of an oscillator may enhance sensorimotor synchronization of gait to an external signal . These data may have implications for the use of synchronization in a therapeutic setting .

@highlight Healthy adults walked on a treadmill that oscillated vertically with a period that varied from stride to stride.
@highlight Small levels of variability improved subconscious synchronization of stepping with treadmill motion.
@highlight Greater variability resulted in decreased synchronization and increased stride interval variability.
@highlight Adding a small amount of variability to an external cue may improve synchronization of gait in other settings.
