 The ankle joint a part of the kinetic chain of the lower limb plays a significant role in the maintenance of postural stability during bipedal and unipedal balancing activities . This study aimed to evaluate the neuromuscular control of the ankle joint and the postural stability while executing the Star Excursion Balance Test by recording the EMG activity of the extrinsic ankle musculature and the displacement of the center of pressure . The EMG activity of the tibialis anterior the peroneus brevis and the medial and lateral gastrocnemius along with the anteroposterior and mediolateral displacements of CoP as well as the plantar pressure distribution of the supportive lower limb were recorded during reaching to the eight directions of SEBT in 29 healthy physically active college students 15 males and 14 females meanSD of age 25.64.5yrs . height 172.58.2cm body weight 67.713.6kg and BMI 22.62.9kg m The tibialis anterior muscle demonstrated the greatest EMG activity during SEBT followed by the PB GL and GM muscles . The increased EMG activity of TA and PB during the execution of all posterior oriented and lateral directions coincided with a decreased APd of CoP and increased reaching distances . The opposite occurred during the execution of all the anterior oriented and medial directions . The differences among the directions of SEBT regarding the EMG activity of GL GM and the mediolateral displacement of CoP were in general not significant . The neuromuscular control of the ankle joint and the associated postural stability during SEBT was highly depended upon the activation level of TA and PB which should be considered by clinicians and sports specialists when using this test for screening and or rehabilitation purposes .

@highlight Postural stability with SEBT is mainly challenged in the anteroposterior direction.
@highlight The invertors and evertors of the subtalar joint control the ankle foot during SEBT.
@highlight The distances reached during SEBT coincide with the activity of tibialis anterior.
@highlight Changes of the foot arch passive stability may affect the body s dynamic balance.
