 The postural control dual task literature has demonstrated greater postural stability during dual task in comparison to single task and wavelet discrete transform have supported the claim of automaticity as higher SampEn values and a shift toward increased contributions from automatic sensory systems have been demonstrated in dual task settings . In order to understand the cortical component of postural control functional near infrared spectroscopy has been used to measure cortical activation during postural control conditions . However the neural correlates of automatic postural behaviour have yet to be fully investigated . Therefore the purpose of this study is to confirm the presence of automatic postural control through static and dynamic balance measures and to investigate the prefrontal cortex activation when concurrently performing quiet standing and the auditory cognitive tasks of varied difficulty . Eighteen healthy young adults 12 females and 6 males with no balance deficits were recruited . Participants were instructed to either quietly stand on a force platform perform three cognitive tasks while seated or perform both aforementioned tasks concurrently . Results supported automatic postural control with lower area and standard deviation of center of pressure in DT conditions compared to SM . As for SampEn and the wavelet analysis DT conditions demonstrated greater values than SM and a shift from vision to a cerebellar contribution . For the most difficult cognitive task the DNS task a trend toward significantly lower right hemisphere prefrontal cortex activation compared to left hemisphere activation in DT was found potentially representing a decrease in cognitive control and the presence of automaticity . These findings suggest that the simultaneous performance of a difficult cognitive task and posture yields automatic postural behaviour and provides insight into the neural correlates of automaticity .

@highlight A postural control cognition dual task promotes an automatic mode of postural control for healthy young adults.
@highlight Cognitive tasks performed simultaneously with standing yield lower sway variability and sway area in healthy young adults.
@highlight A dual task enables greater SampEn and a shift in the contribution of the vision the vestibular system and the cerrebellum.
@highlight The DNS task performed in dual task promotes a trend toward lower right PFC activation compared to left PFC activation.
