 Peripheral vision often deteriorates with age disrupting our ability to maintain normal locomotion . Laboratory based studies have shown that lower visual field loss in particular is associated with changes in gaze and gait behaviour whilst walking and this in turn increases the risk of falling in the elderly . Separately gaze and gait behaviours change and fall risk increases when walking over complex surfaces . It seems probable but has not yet been established that these challenges to stability interact . How does loss of the lower visual field affect gaze and gait behaviour whilst walking on a variety of complex surfaces outside of the laboratory Specifically is there a synergistic interaction between the effects on behaviour of blocking the lower visual field and increased surface complexity We compared how full vision versus simulated lower visual field loss affected a diverse range of behavioural measures in young participants . Participants walked over a range of surfaces of different complexity including pavements grass steps and pebbles . In both full vision and blocked lower visual field conditions surface complexity influenced gaze and gait behaviour . For example more complex surfaces were shown to be associated with lowered head pitch angles increased leg muscle coactivation reduced gait speed and decreased walking smoothness . Relative to full vision blocking the lower visual field caused a lowering of head pitch especially for more complex surfaces . However crucially muscle coactivation gait speed and walking smoothness did not show a significant change between full vision and blocked lower visual field conditions . Finally head pitch angle muscle coactivation gait speed and walking smoothness were all correlated highly with each other . Our study showed that blocking the lower visual field did not significantly change muscle coactivation gait speed or walking smoothness . This suggests that young people cope well when walking with a blocked lower visual field making minimal behavioural changes . Surface complexity had a greater effect on gaze and gait behaviour than blocking the lower visual field . Finally head pitch angle was the only measure that showed a significant synergistic interaction between surface complexity and blocking the lower visual field . Together our results indicate that first a range of changes occur across the body when people walk over more complex surfaces and second that a relatively simple behavioural change suffices to maintain normal gait when the lower visual field is blocked even in more challenging environments . Future research should assess whether young people cope as effectively when several impairments are simulated representative of the comorbidities found with age .

@highlight Walking over more complex surfaces is associated with behavioural changes in both gaze and gait
@highlight Blocking the lower visual field alters gaze but does not change gait when walking over more complex surfaces
@highlight Head pitch was the only measure to show a synergistic interaction between surface complexity and a blocked lower visual field
