 Recently kinematic analysis of the drinking task has been recommended to assess the quality of upper limb movement after stroke but the accomplishment of this task may become difficult for poststroke patients with hand impairment . Therefore it is necessary to study ADLs that involve a simpler interaction with a daily life target such as the turning on a light task . As the knowledge of movement performed by healthy adults becomes essential to assess the quality of movement of poststroke patients the main goal of this article was to compare the kinematic strategies used by healthy adults in LIGHT with those that are used in DRINK . 63 adults aged 30 to 69years old drank water and turned on a light using both ULs separately while seated . The movements of both tasks were captured by a 3D motion capture system . End point and joint kinematics of reaching and returning phases were analysed . A multifactorial analysis of variance with repeated measures was applied to the kinematic metrics using age sex body mass index and dominance as main factors . Mean and peak velocities index of curvature shoulder flexion and elbow extension were lower in LIGHT which suggests that the real hand trajectory was smaller in this task . In LIGHT reaching was less smooth and returning was smoother than DRINK . The instant of peak velocity was similar in both tasks . There was a minimal anterior trunk displacement in LIGHT and a greater anterior trunk displacement in DRINK . Age and sex were the main factors which exerted effect on some of the kinematics especially in LIGHT . The different target formats and hand contact in DRINK and LIGHT seem to be responsible for differences in velocity profile efficiency smoothness joint angles and trunk displacement . Results suggest that the real hand trajectory was smaller in LIGHT and that interaction with the switch seems to be less demanding than with the glass . Accordingly LIGHT could be a good option for the assessment of poststroke patients without grasping ability . Age and sex seem to be the main factors to be considered in future studies for a better match between healthy and poststroke adults .

@highlight Velocity index of curvature shoulder flexion and elbow extension were lower in the turning on the light task LIGHT .
@highlight There was a greater trunk displacement during the drinking task DRINK .
@highlight Results suggest that the real hand trajectory was smaller in the LIGHT.
@highlight Interaction with the switch seems to be less demanding than with the glass.
@highlight The LIGHT could be a good option for the assessment of patients without grasping ability.
