 The movement strategy an individual uses to complete a lift can influence the resultant biomechanical exposure on their low back . We hypothesize that some lifters may choose a motor control strategy to minimize exposure to the low back where others may not . Lower magnitudes of exposure to the low back coupled with less variability in lift to lift exposure and in features of movement strategy related to biomechanical exposure would support that such lifters consider minimizing exposure in their motor control strategy . We tested this hypothesis by investigating if differences in variability of low back exposure measures as well as features of movement strategy related to resultant low back exposures differed across lifters . Twenty eight healthy adults participated in the study where ten repetitions of a lifting task with the load scaled to 75 of participant s one repetition maximum were completed . In all trials whole body kinematics and ground reaction forces were collected . Lifters were grouped as low moderate or high relative exposure based on low back flexion angles and normalized L4 L5 extensor moments when lifting . Principal component analysis was used to identify independent movement strategy features and statistical testing determined which features differed between high and low exposure lifts . Variability in low back exposures and movement features associated with relative biomechanical exposure were compared across lifter classifications . Significantly less variability was observed in low back exposures among the low exposure lifter group . Additionally a trend towards lower variability in movement features associated with relative biomechanical exposure was also observed in low exposure lifters . These findings provide initial support for the hypothesis that some lifters likely define a motor control strategy that considers minimizing biomechanical exposure in addition to completing the lift demands . Future work should explore how state and trait based factors influence an individual to consider biomechanical exposure within their motor control strategy in lifting .

@highlight Low back exposures were less variable in lifters with consistently lower exposures.
@highlight Movement features associated with biomechanical exposure may link to individual risk.
@highlight Some lifters may consider reducing low back exposures in their motor control strategy.
