 Postural control continues to develop during middle childhood as shown by the decrease in body sway in stance between the ages of 5 and 11 . Although head and trunk control is crucial for balance control during both static and dynamic activities evaluating its specific development and its contribution to overall postural control is methodologically challenging . Here we used an unstable sitting device adapted to ensure that only the axial segments could control the balance of the device and thus the balance of the upper body . This study aimed to assess the development of the postural stabilization of axial body segments during middle childhood . Thirty six children and 11 adults sat on the unstable sitting device and had to stabilize their axial segments under several conditions a moderate vs. high level of balance challenge and eyes open vs. eyes closed . Upper body postural sway of the center of pressure displacement decreased progressively with age and this effect was accentuated when the balance challenge was high or in the eyes closed condition . The stabilization strategies were assessed by anchoring indexes computed from three dimensional kinematics . A progressive shift was showed from an en bloc pattern at 67years of age toward a more articulated pattern at 1011 . A head on space stabilization strategy first emerged at the age of 89 . Middle childhood is an important period for the development of axial segment stabilization which continues to mature until adulthood . This development might be related to the introduction and progressive mastery of feedforward sensorimotor processes and might contribute strongly to the development of overall postural control .

@highlight Axial segment stabilization develops progressively between the ages of 6 and 11.
@highlight During unstable sitting postural sway is greater in 10 11 year olds than in adults.
@highlight A head on space stabilization strategy first emerges at 8years of age.
@highlight Head trunk stabilization strategies are similar in 10 11 year olds and adults.
