 To evaluate the effects of three different foci of attention on motor learning using craniocervical flexion test in inexperienced participants . Ninety healthy young adults with no experience in the task practiced the craniocervical flexion test under three different focus of attention a Mixed Focus b Internal Focus and c External Focus . We assessed immediate post training and retention aspects of motor learning by quantifying the activity of the superficial cervical flexors muscles craniocervical range of motion and the performance on the craniocervical flexion test . None of the groups showed any significant immediate post training or retention effects on superficial neck flexors activity and craniocervical range of motion progression . At immediate assessment mixed focus had greater craniocervical flexion performance than external and internal foci . At post training mixed focus led to better craniocervical performance compared to external and internal foci . External focus had better scores on the craniocervical flexion test performance than internal focus . Results remained similar at retention with mixed focus being superior to internal and external foci on craniocervical flexion test performance . Similarly the performance on the craniocervical flexion test performance remained similar at retention between external and internal foci . In inexperienced asymptomatic participants different foci of attention were not able to change cervical muscle activity and craniocervical range of motion during the craniocervical flexion test . Mixed focus was better than external and internal focus on the craniocervical flexion test . These findings were retained after one week .

@highlight IF EF or MIXED focus of attention did not alter cervical electromyography.
@highlight Craniocervical ROM was not influenced by the focus of attention.
@highlight Different foci of attention changed CCFT performance.
@highlight The MIXED focus of attention had better CCFT performance than other focus of attention.
