 The purpose of this study was to investigate weight bearing knee joint kinematic and neuromuscular responses during lateral posterior rotational and combination perturbations and post perturbations phases in 30 flexed knee and straight knee conditions . Thirteen healthy female athletes participated . Knee joint angles and muscle activity of vastus lateralis vastus medialis biceps femoris semitendinosus lateral gastrocnemius and medial gastrocnemius muscles were computed . Knee abducted during lateral perturbations whereas it adducted during the other perturbations . It was internally rotated during flexed knee and externally rotated during straight knee perturbations and post perturbations . VL and VM s mean and maximum activities during flexed knee perturbations were greater than those of straight knee condition . BF s mean activities were greater during flexed knee perturbations compared with straight knee condition while its maximum activities observed during combination perturbations . ST s maximum activities during combination perturbations were greatest compared with the other perturbations . LG and MG s activities were greater during straight knee conditions . Compared with the perturbation phase the mean and maximum muscles activities were significantly greater during post perturbations . The time of onset of maximum muscle activity showed a distinctive pattern among the perturbations and phases . The perturbation direction is an important variable which induces individualized knee kinematic and neuromuscular response .

@highlight 30 knee flexion could reduce the knee dynamic stability and potentially increase the risk of joint injuries
@highlight Knee abduction accompanied with its rotations during the lateral perturbations may increase the joint soft tissue strain
@highlight Higher activities of quadriceps compared with the hamstrings contribute to destabilization of the knee
@highlight Gastrocnemius muscles are the main knee stabilizers during perturbations at the straight knee condition
@highlight Knee kinematic and neuromuscular adaptations during sudden perturbations can identify the related knee stability mechanisms
