 Walking surfaces vary in complexity and are known to affect stability and fall risk whilst walking . However existing studies define surfaces through descriptions only . This study used a multimethod approach to measure surface complexity in order to try to characterise surfaces with respect to locomotor stability . We assessed how physical measurements of walking surface complexity compared to participant s perceptual ratings of the effect of complexity on stability . Physical measurements included local slope measures from the surfaces themselves and shape complexity measured using generated surface models . Perceptual measurements assessed participants perceived stability and surface roughness using Likert scales . We then determined whether these measurements were indicative of changes to stability as assessed by behavioural changes including eye angle head pitch angle muscle coactivation walking speed and walking smoothness . Physical and perceptual measures were highly correlated with more complex surfaces being perceived as more challenging to stability . Furthermore complex surfaces as defined from both these measurements were associated with lowered head pitch increased muscle coactivation and reduced walking smoothness . Our findings show that walking surfaces defined as complex based on physical measurements are perceived as more challenging to our stability . Furthermore certain behavioural measures relate better to these perceptual and physical measures than others . Crucially for the first time this study defined walking surfaces objectively rather than just based on subjective descriptions . This approach could enable future researchers to compare results across walking surface studies . Moreover perceptual measurements which can be collected easily and efficiently could be used as a proxy for estimating behavioural responses to different surfaces . This could be particularly valuable when determining risk of instability when walking for individuals with compromised stability

@highlight Walking surfaces are defined objectively in respects to their complexity rather than by subjective descriptions.
@highlight Walking surfaces defined as complex based on physical measurements are perceived as more challenging to our stability.
@highlight Behavioural measures indicative of stability correlate with perceptual and physical measures of surface complexity.
