 Individuals with Developmental Coordination Disorder experience difficulty with motor coordination and this affects their daily functioning . Research indicated inferior visuospatial processing and oculomotor control in DCD . As visual information is essential for locomotor control more insight in the gaze behaviour of this population during walking is required and crucial for gaze training interventions as a possible means to improve daily functioning of children and adults with DCD . This study explored differences and similarities in gaze behaviour during walking between typically developing young adults and those with DCD . Ten young adults with DCD and ten typically developing individuals completed a walking task in which they had to place their feet on irregularly placed targets wearing eye tracking glasses . Individuals with DCD walked slower and demonstrated a different gaze strategy compared to their neurotypical peers as they fixated almost each and every target sequentially . Typically developing individuals on the other hand directed gaze further along the path and often fixated areas around the targets . Despite adequate walking performance in daily situations in young adults with DCD fundamental control deficits persist into adulthood . This paper is the first to demonstrate differences in gaze behaviour between young adults with DCD and typically developing individuals in a task that resembles a task of daily living as previous research focused on laboratory tasks . This is a valuable finding as DCD has a clear impact on the daily life . Furthermore this study demonstrated that the fundamental control deficits of DCD persist into adulthood despite frequent performance and practice of these daily tasks . Lastly these findings might contribute to the therapeutic potential of gaze training interventions to improve the daily functioning of children and adults with DCD .

@highlight Young adults with DCD walk slower over irregularly placed targets.
@highlight Individuals with DCD fixate almost each and every target sequentially.
@highlight Neurotypical individuals do not require constant foveal information of the targets.
@highlight Gaze of individuals with DCD is directed closer to their feet.
