 Restricted ankle dorsiflexion can promote aberrant biomechanics associated with risk for knee injury during dynamic activities . Attentionally focused instructions have been used to improve high risk knee biomechanics during landing tasks . Yet it is unknown whether attentionally focused instruction can effectively improve landing patterns in the presence of a mechanical restriction on the ankle . Therefore our purpose was to determine whether restricting ankle dorsiflexion by use of bracing mitigated the effects of attentional foci on landing biomechanics in healthy females . We used a crossover design to investigate lower extremity biomechanics in 19 healthy females between the ages of 1835 during a series of jump landing tasks . Participants completed 6 blocks of 3 jump landings on separate force platforms in a randomized order based on brace condition and mode of attentional foci external focus . Attentionally focused instructions were provided immediately prior to 3 practice jump landings followed by 5 test jump landings with self controlled feedback only . Ankle bracing decreased peak dorsiflexion and sagittal range of motion and peak inversion and frontal ROM . However hip flexion ROM increased compared to the no brace condition . Regardless of ankle bracing EF instruction increased peak hip flexion and hip flexion range of motion while decreasing peak knee valgus and knee valgus moment . Additionally EF instruction increased peak hip abduction to a similar degree when braced and not braced . Lastly EF instruction increased hip abduction ROM only when braced but decreased peak knee valgus power only when not braced . Our findings indicate that mechanically restricting ankle dorsiflexion does not mitigate the ability of EF instruction to enhance jump landing performance by means of improving hip and knee biomechanics in healthy females . However our findings suggest an improved ability to control the rate of knee valgus loading when not braced . Therefore we conclude that EF instruction remains a viable clinical strategy to improve landing patterns in the presence of restricted ankle dorsiflexion yet this approach may be ineffective to reduce the rate of knee joint loading .

@highlight Restricting ankle dorsiflexion did not promote high risk knee biomechanics.
@highlight Inducing an external focus of attention improved hip and knee landing biomechanics.
@highlight Restricting ankle dorsiflexion did not lessen improvements in landing biomechanics.
@highlight Externally focused instruction is a viable strategy to improve landing patterns.
