 The elimination of familiarisation effects is a recurring topic in biomechanical testing during treadmill running among different experience levels . The two aims of this study were to calculate familiarisation times of novice and experienced treadmill runners on a group level and to examine individual familiarisation patterns in order to classify those with similar characteristics . Twenty runners participated in this study by performing a treadmill running session with 3D motion capture . Familiarisation times for 9 kinematic variables among both groups were statistically analysed . Additionally a qualitative clustering process provided individual familiarisation patterns for all participants and variables . Group mean familiarisation times were inconsistent across variables with no general tendency for decreased familiarisation time in experienced compared to novice treadmill runners . The analysis of individual familiarisation patterns revealed that 30.5 were not stable after 15min . Substantial changes compared to the initial state were observed in data sets with detected familiarisation pattern . Treadmill running experience does not affect familiarisation patterns since this process is highly individual and variable specific . Consequently no generalised familiarisation time can be provided and the elimination of familiarisation in biomechanical testing a priori does not seem to be possible in the first 15min for approximately one third of the individual patterns studied . In conclusion the common practice of collecting data subsequent to a pre defined generalised familiarisation time ought to be replaced by measurements at several points in time during trials . This required procedure would allow for checking familiarisation patterns and fluctuations in order to exclude inappropriate data sets in future treadmill studies .

@highlight Familiarisation among experience levels needs to be considered in treadmill running studies.
@highlight Group level familiarisation times are inconsistent among groups and variables.
@highlight Familiarisation to treadmill running reveals highly individual response patterns.
