 The ability to anticipate is a defining feature of skilled sports performance . To date research investigating the information that underpins skilled anticipation has focused on kinematic information from an opponent and contextual factors . However there has been a paucity of research investigating the influence of ball flight and spin . Oval shaped balls despite the seeming random nature do in fact display specific bounce characteristics based on the nature of ball flight . We tested the ability of 38 professional and 20 less skilled rugby union players to anticipate ball bounce direction for grubber and chip kicks using a temporal occlusion paradigm to restrict access to different sources of information . We predicted that skilled performers would have become attuned to both advance postural cues and the physical laws of ball flight and spin that govern ball bounce through their extensive practice and exposure to these situations and so would anticipate more accurately than less skilled performers . Results supported this hypothesis as skilled participants outperformed less skilled in all occlusion conditions however all groups anticipated more accurately with access to later emerging information sources with the skill level difference primarily underpinned by earlier available sources . There was no difference between anticipation accuracy in professional forwards and backs and no kick type x group interaction suggesting that the knowledge structures underpinning perceptual cognitive expertise are not position specific . Findings have implication for models of anticipation and training design and tactics in rugby .

@highlight Skilled rugby players can anticipate seemingly random ball bounce more accurately than less skilled counterparts.
@highlight Grubber kicks are easier to anticipate than chip kicks across skill levels.
@highlight Skilled performers are able to utilise postural cues from the kicker to predict bounce outcome.
@highlight All skill levels utilised ball flight information to anticipate above chance levels.
