 Ultra early hematoma growth in acute intracerebral hemorrhage has been well established and can improve spot sign in the prediction of hematoma expansion and poor outcome . This study aimed to investigate whether uHG can improve blend sign as a promising combining marker to stratify HE and poor outcome . A consecutive cohort study in patients with primary ICH conducted in the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University . Demographic characteristics medical history clinical features and radiological characteristics were recorded . Univariate analysis and multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify independently risk factors of HE and poor outcome . coefficient was calculated for combining markers using the logistic regression . Receiver operating characteristic curves were fitted to calculate predictive values for each variable and combining markers to stratify HE and poor outcome . Among 257 ICH patients in the study there were 85 patients with HE . Blend sign and uHG were independently associated with HE and poor outcome . Age admission GCS score presence of IVH at baseline CT were also independently associated with poor outcome . Combining marker including uHG and blend sign had the best AUC sensitivity NPV and LR than single variable to stratify HE . Combining marker including uHG blend sign and risk clinical factors had the best AUC sensitivity NPV LR than single variable and the ICH score to stratify poor outcome . ICH score had the highest PPV and LR to stratify poor outcome than other variables . The combination of both uHG and blend sign could be a simple and useful tool for better stratification of HE and poor outcome .

@highlight Combination of uHG and blend sign could predict hematoma expansion better than the single of variables.
@highlight Combination of uHG blend sign and the clinical risk factors could stratify poor outcome better than the ICH score.
@highlight Combining marker with uHG and blend sign was a useful model for predicting hematoma expansion and poor outcome.
