 Patients affected with von Hippel Lindau disease often develop multiple hemangioblastomas in the cerebellum and spinal cord . Timing of surgical intervention is difficult and depends largely on the anticipated surgical morbidity . However data regarding surgical outcome after multiple cerebellar and medullary surgeries are scarce . Our objective was to evaluate cumulative surgical morbidity in patients operated on multiple cerebellar and medullary hemangioblastomas and to deduce recommendations for treatment . We performed a retrospective analysis for a consecutive cohort of von Hippel Lindau patients with surgical treatment of at least two cerebellar and or medullary hemangioblastomas . Pre and postoperative functional grades were reviewed in patients files and compared by Modified Ranking Scale or by Modified McCormick Score . Thirty six patients were surgically treated for at least two cerebellar hemangioblastomas at least two medullary hemangioblastomas or at least two hemangioblastomas in both locations . Fourthy eight cerebellar and 80 medullary procedures were performed in total . On average multiple cerebellar surgeries caused no clinical deterioration whereas multiple medullary surgeries led to a slight cumulative deterioration of postoperative functional grades . The severity of this deterioration did not correlate to the number of performed medullary surgeries . Resection of multiple cerebellar hemangioblastomas is not associated with cumulative morbidity . Although there is a certain cumulative surgical morbidity caused by medullary surgeries its extent does not increase with the number of performed surgeries . Microsurgical removal of asymptomatic tumors with radiographic progression can also be considered for patients with multiple tumors and previous surgeries .

@highlight Functionality usually remains stable after cerebellar hemangioblastoma surgery.
@highlight Even multiple cerebellar surgeries may not cause deterioration in VHL patients.
@highlight Functionality slightly deteriorates after medullary hemangioblastoma surgery.
@highlight The extent of this deterioration does not increase throughout consecutive surgeries.
@highlight Hemangioblastoma resection should also be considered in patients with extensive surgical history.
