 The novel coronavirus SARS CoV 2 pandemic has posed significant changes to physician workflow and healthcare delivery . This national survey investigated the impact of the pandemic on burnout and career satisfaction among U.S. attending neurosurgeons . A 24 question survey was sent electronically to all American Association of Neurological Surgeons attending members . The abbreviated Maslach Burnout Inventory was used to measure the following burnout and career satisfaction indices emotional exhaustion depersonalization and personal accomplishment . Bivariate analyses were conducted and multivariate analyses were performed using logistic regression models . 407 attending neurosurgeons were included in the present study with an overall response rate of 17.7 . The majority of respondents were male White and in practice for 15 years or more . The majority reported a decrease in work hours due to the pandemic uncertainty about future earnings and uncertainty regarding future healthcare reform . Burnout was identified in 83 respondents whereas career satisfaction was identified in 316 respondents . Rate of burnout was decreased when compared to rates reported in the pre COVID era . Factors related to the novel COVID 19 pandemic have contributed to changes in workflow among U.S. attending neurosurgeons . Despite these changes we report decreased burnout and high career satisfaction among U.S. neurosurgeons . Understanding modifiable stressors among neurosurgeons during the pandemic may help to identify effective future interventions to mitigate burnout and improve career satisfaction .

@highlight Burnout among attending neurosurgeons is associated with factors related to uncertainty and workflow changes during the COVID 19 pandemic.
@highlight Career satisfaction is associated with cerebrovascular subspecialty training and willingness to pursue neurosurgery again if given the choice.
@highlight Support for attending neurosurgeons is recommended during the transition to caring for patients in the COVID 19 era.
