 Knowledge about the long term outcome of high level language ability in awake surgery patients with low grade gliomas or cavernomas in language eloquent regions is limited particularly regarding subtle changes in high level language abilities . The study group consisted of 27 patients with LGG or cavernoma which involved language eloquent regions in the left hemisphere . A comprehensive assessment battery was used to target subtle changes in overall high level language ability as well as in language sub skills . Assessments were made preoperatively and at 3 and 12 months postoperatively . The results showed that overall high level language ability had not decreased significantly at group level at 3 or 12 months postoperatively . The proportion of patients with a decline of 5 percent or more at follow up 3 and 12 months were 13 and 9 respectively . There was a marked decline in semantic fluency at 3 and 12 months postoperatively . Phonemic fluency while not significantly reduced at three months improved markedly in the interval between 3 and 12 months . At 12 months the only significant decline relative to preoperative scores were seen in semantic fluency for animals and verbs . Verbal cognitive speed did not decline significantly postoperatively but approximately 40 of the patients had a decline of 5 or more at 12 months . Overall high level language ability was not significantly affected postoperatively at 3 and 12 months in LGG and cavernoma awake surgery patients . Semantic word fluency had deteriorated postoperatively at 3 and 12 months follow up . Taken together our results indicate a decline in processing speed of verbal material postoperatively in the patient group .

@highlight Subtle changes in overall high level language outcome postoperatively were studied.
@highlight High level language functions had not decreased 3 and 12 months postoperatively.
@highlight Semantic word fluency animals and verbs declined 3 and 12 months postoperatively.
@highlight A novel finding was that phonemic word fluency improved between 3 and 12 months.
@highlight Verbal cognitive speed had declined in 40 of the patients 12 months postoperatively.
