 Sporadic endolymphatic sac tumor is rare . The purpose of this study was to analyze the clinical feature and surgical outcome of a single center series of sporadic ELSTs . We retrospectively reviewed all cases of sporadic ELSTs operated at the Tiantan hospital between 2010 and 2020 . Retrospective record revealed 14 patients with sporadic ELSTs who underwent surgical management . Serum VEGFvalues of 6 patients were measured on admission and the levels were all higher than normal . All patients underwent surgical treatments and there was no significant difference in KPS before and after the operation . The average maximum diameter of the tumor was 41mm . After surgery Two patients received radiation therapy We did not encounter any case with metastatic dissemination . No deaths occurred during follow up . ELST is defined as an aggressive or low grade malignant tumor with the characteristics of local recurrence and invasion of bone growth . Sporadic cases are common and this rare tumor provides insight into the relationship between ELST and VHL syndrome . Early surgical resection can prevent or reduce the disability of auditory vestibular symptoms and improve the chance of complete resection and retention of hearing . As far as possible complete resection of the tumor can prolong the disease free survival of patients . Preoperative radiotherapy or stereotactic therapy can not control tumor growth . Postoperative radiotherapy may have a positive effect on tumor control . The high expression of VEGF in patients may be related to tumor occurrence and development .

@highlight This is the largest number of sporadic endolymphatic sac tumor reported in a single center.
@highlight ELST is a kind of low grade malignant tumor and there is no significant difference between the patients after operation and the preoperative KPS.
@highlight Gross total resection is the best treatment strategy. The high expression of VEGF in patients may be related to the occurrence and development of tumors.
