 In January 2018 the European Union approved ocrelizumab in relapsing multiple sclerosis and as the first disease modifying therapy for patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis with efficacy proven in a phase 3 randomised controlled trial . Eleven months prior to the European regulatory approval a compassionate use programme made ocrelizumab available to 489 patients with PPMS in Germany thereby for the first time providing a therapeutic option to patients with PPMS who could not participate in ocrelizumab studies . Here we report real world patient characteristics and short term safety data of patients with PPMS treated with ocrelizumab in this CUP . This CUP was initiated in February 2017 shortly before US Food and Drug administration approval in March 2017 and ended in January 2018 following ocrelizumab approval in the EU . Adult patients with PPMS who had a positive benefit risk ratio according to the treating physician were eligible for inclusion at German treatment centres . The main exclusion criteria were current recent treatment with other immune therapies and unresolved chronic active infections . Patients received methylprednisolone and an antihistamine before treatment with intravenous ocrelizumab in 6 month cycles . The first ocrelizumab dose was a 300 mg infusion followed by a second 300 mg infusion 2 weeks later subsequent doses were delivered as a single 600 mg infusion . Adverse events were reported immediately . Of 580 requests received from 104 centres 525 patients met the eligibility criteria . Thirty five patients did not participate due to withdrawal by the treating physician and one due to death prior to treatment . A total of 489 patients received at least one 600 mg dose of ocrelizumab and 51 received a second dose . Due to termination of the CUP upon marketing authorisation the maximum follow up period was 12 months . Median patient age was 52 years and 49 were female . Previous immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive therapies had been received by 41 of patients with the most commonly used being glucocorticoids mitoxantrone interferon and glatiramer acetate . Patients with a previous malignancy serious disease or infection had recovered from this prior to the CUP . Nine serious adverse events and 70 non serious adverse events were reported in 40 patients . Adverse event categories were generally consistent with the known safety profile of ocrelizumab one patient had carry over progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy due to previous natalizumab treatment . This CUP provides first real world observations of ocrelizumab for the treatment of PPMS in a large patient cohort in Germany supporting that ocrelizumab is generally well tolerated in clinical practice . Physicians should be vigilant for early symptoms of PML as to date 9 PML cases that were all confounded have been reported in patients treated with ocrelizumab worldwide with 8 carry over cases from a prior DMT .

@highlight To date ocrelizumab is the only PPMS therapy with efficacy in a phase 3 trial.
@highlight We provide real world short term safety data of ocrelizumab for PPMS treatment.
@highlight CUP offered ocrelizumab to 489 German patients with PPMS before European approval.
@highlight More heterogeneous population e.g. age advanced PPMS than in clinical trials.
@highlight Ocrelizumab was generally well tolerated.
