 This observational cross sectional multicenter study aimed to evaluate the longitudinal impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic on neurosurgical practice . We included 29 participating neurosurgeons in centers from all geographical regions in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia . The study period which was between March 5 2020 and May 20 2020 was divided into three equal periods to determine the longitudinal effect of COVID 19 measures on neurosurgical practice over time . During the 11 week study period 474 neurosurgical interventions were performed . The median number of neurosurgical procedures per day was 5.5 3.58 . The number of cases declined from 72 in the first week and plateaued at the 30s range in subsequent weeks . The most and least number of performed procedures were oncology and functional procedures respectively . Emergency cases were more frequent than non urgent cases vs. 74 respectively . In our series there were three positive COVID 19 cases . There was a significant among period difference in the length of hospital stay which dropped from a median stay of 7 days to 6 to 5 days . There was no significant among period difference with respect to institution type complications or mortality . Our study demonstrated that the COVID 19 pandemic decreased the number of procedures performed in neurosurgery practice . The load of emergency neurosurgery procedures did not change throughout the three periods which reflects the need to designate ample resources to cover emergencies . Notably with strict screening for COVID 19 infections neurosurgical procedures could be safely performed during the early pandemic phase . We recommend to restart performing neurosurgical procedures once the pandemic gets stabilized to avoid possible post pandemic health care system intolerable overload .

@highlight All neurosurgical procedures decreased in number during the COVID 19 pandemic.
@highlight Surgical complication rates remained within the acceptable range.
@highlight Emergency procedures numbers remained the same throughout the study period.
@highlight Neurosurgical oncology cases were the highest in frequency.
@highlight There is a decline in hospital length of stay as we progressed during the study period.
