 Food safety issues have occurred frequently in China in recent years which results in consumers high risk perception of food additives . In the present research we examined whether knowledge would decrease Chinese consumers risk perception of food additives under the influence of food safety issues risk perception we also investigated how information selection impacted popularization effectiveness . Study 1 demonstrated that risk perception of food safety issues was positively correlated with risk perception of food additives . In addition with increased risk perception of food safety issues the higher level of knowledge weakened the influence of risk perception of food safety issues on risk perception of food additives . In Study 2 we proposed a consumer risk focused approach of knowledge popularization related to food additives based on consumers cognitive rules and concerns . We compared its popularization effectiveness with the comprehensive knowledge based approach at three time points . We found that the consumer risk focused approach significantly promoted the effectiveness of popularization including increasing knowledge accuracy and trust and decreasing risk perception . The present study provides evidence that risk perception of food safety issues leads to biased judgments and perceptions concerning food additives but knowledge acts as a buffering function in this biased relationship . In addition in terms of practical application this study contributes to improving the effectiveness of knowledge popularization about food additives .

@highlight Risk perception of food safety issues positively predicated risk perception of food additives.
@highlight Knowledge weakened the effect of risk perception of food safety issues on risk perception of food additives.
@highlight A consumer risk focused popularization means of food additives was proposed.
@highlight A three time point study compared different methods effectiveness of popularization.
@highlight The consumer risk focused approach was more effective on popularization.
