 Pepsin the archetypal pepsin like aspartic protease is irreversibly denatured when exposed to neutral pH conditions whereas renin a structural homologue of pepsin is fully stable and optimally active in the same conditions despite sharing highly similar enzyme architecture . To gain insight into the structural determinants of differential aspartic protease pH stability the present study used comparative bioinformatic and structural analyses . In pepsin an abundance of polar and aspartic acid residues were identified a common trait with other acid stable enzymes . Conversely renin was shown to have increased levels of basic amino acids . In both pepsin and renin the solvent exposure of these charged groups was high . Having similar overall acidic residue content the solvent exposed basic residues may allow for extensive salt bridge formation in renin whereas in pepsin these residues are protonated and serve to form stabilizing hydrogen bonds at low pH . Relative differences in structure and sequence in the turn and joint regions of the barrel and loop in both the N and C terminal lobes were identified as regions of interest in defining divergent pH stability . Compared to the structural rigidity of renin pepsin has more instability associated with the N terminus specifically the B C connector . By contrast renin exhibits greater C terminal instability in turn and connector regions . Overall flexibility differences in connector regions and amino acid composition particularly in turn and joint regions of the barrel and loops likely play defining roles in determining pH stability for renin and pepsin .

@highlight Connector regions were found to have structural variation between pepsin and renin.
@highlight pH stability may be defined by altered amino acid composition in connector regions.
@highlight The N terminus of pepsin is more flexible than the N terminus renin.
@highlight Pepsin may unfold in one event renin may unfold in a series of smaller events.
@highlight Pepsin has more predicted regions that may initiate unfolding compared to renin.
