 Cyclosporine combined with short course methotrexate is considered standard of care graft versus host disease prophylaxis for patients with severe aplastic anemia who undergo transplantation using cyclophosphamide plus anti thymocyte globulin conditioning . However there is no consensus on optimal post transplant GVHD prophylaxis for patients undergoing matched related donor transplantation using fludarabine based conditioning . We conducted a single center retrospective analysis of patients with acquired AA undergoing MRD transplantation from July 2007 through January 2019 . All patients received Flu Cy ATG conditioning and single agent CsA as GVHD prophylaxis . Median age of the study cohort was 20 years and male to female ratio was 3.8 1 . Median time from diagnosis to transplant was 11.5 months . Graft source was bone marrow harvest in 71 combined bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells in 34 and peripheral blood alone in 1 patient . Cumulative incidence of neutrophil engraftment at day 28 was 93.4 87.3 to 97.1 while that of platelet engraftment at day 100 was 90.5 . Cumulative incidence of primary graft failure at day 28 was 6.6 while secondary graft failure occurred at a median of 190 days at a cumulative incidence of 3.7 . Cumulative incidence of grade II to IV acute GVHD at day 100 was 3.8 while a 1 year probability of chronic GVHD was calculated as 7.5 . Median follow up post transplant was 61 months . Overall survival was 84.9 disease free survival was 80.2 and GVHD free relapse free survival was 76.3 . This study indicates that single agent cyclosporine is a feasible option for GVHD prophylaxis in MRD hematopoietic stem cell transplantation using Flu Cy ATG conditioning and is associated with very low rates of acute and chronic GVHD .

@highlight Graft versus host disease GVHD often leads to post transplant morbidity and mortality and can severely compromise quality of life.
@highlight Cyclosporine combined with short course methotrexate is considered standard of care GVHD prophylaxis for patients with severe aplastic anemia who undergo transplantation using cyclophosphamide Cy plus anti thymocyte globulin ATG conditioning.
@highlight Single agent cyclosporine is a feasible option for GVHD prophylaxis in matched related donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation using fludarabine Cy ATG conditioning and is associated with very low rates of acute and chronic GVHD.
