 Transplant associated thrombotic microangiopathy is a systemic vascular illness associated with significant morbidity and mortality resulting from a convergence of risk factors after allogeneic blood or marrow transplantation . The diagnosis of taTMA has been a challenge but most criteria include an elevated lactate dehydrogenase low haptoglobin and schistocytes on peripheral blood smear . We performed a retrospective review of the 678 consecutive adults who received high dose post transplantation cyclophosphamide based graft versus host disease prophylaxis between January 1 2015 and August 31 2018 . In April 2016 we initiated a monitoring program of weekly LDH and haptoglobin measurements and blood smears when those 2 parameters were both abnormal on all of our adult patients undergoing alloBMT for hematologic malignancies . During the entire period the 1 year cumulative incidence of taTMA was 1.4 . Eight patients were taking tacrolimus at the time of diagnosis and 1 was not on any immunosuppression . Eight of 9 patients were hypertensive . Four patients had invasive infections at the time of diagnosis 4 patients required renal replacement therapy and 5 of 9 patients were neurologically impaired . Eculizumab was given to 6 patients of whom 2 died and 4 recovered with resolution of end organ dysfunction . The paucity of events made the determination of risk factors difficult however the low incidence of taTMA in this cohort may be related to the limited use of myeloablative conditioning regimens low incidence of severe GVHD and use of PTCy . PTCy based GVHD prophylaxis appears to be associated with a low incidence of severe taTMA .

@highlight Transplant associated thrombotic microangiopathy taTMA is a serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
@highlight The incidence of taTMA is low at 1.4 using post transplant cyclophosphamide PTCy based graft versus host disease prophylaxis.
@highlight Recipient donor mismatch is unlikely to be a risk factor when PTCy is used.
