 Limited data exist regarding the prevalence and outcome of medication nonadherence in the adult allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation population . The objective of this cross sectional survey study is to determine the prevalence of medication nonadherence to immunosuppressant and nonimmunosuppressant medications in adult recipients of allo HSCT . An electronic survey using previously validated medication adherence scales was distributed between December 2014 and April 2015 to 200 adult patients with at least 3 months of follow up after allo HSCT . Immunosuppressant serum drug levels and prescription refill records were retrospectively collected to assess correlation with survey responses . In the entire cohort 51 of subjects reported nonadherence to nonimmunosuppressant medications 44.07 to 57.93 on the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale . Of the 153 patients taking oral immunosuppressant medications at the time of the survey 58 reported nonadherence to immunosuppressant therapy as measured by the Immunosuppressant Therapy Adherence Scale . Younger age and distress were associated with medication nonadherence . Nonadherence to immunosuppressant therapy was associated with mild chronic graft vs host disease and a similar trend was observed for moderate cGVHD . Medication nonadherence was found to be highly prevalent for both immunosuppressant and nonimmunosuppressant medications in adult allo HSCT recipient and further study to identify interventions to improve adherence in these patients is warranted .

@highlight One half 51 102 of 200 of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation recipients reported nonadherence to nonimmunosuppressant medications.
@highlight More than one third 38 of 153 patients taking oral immunosuppressant medications at the time of survey reported nonadherence to immunosuppressants.
@highlight Younger age distress and higher number of as needed medications were associated with medication nonadherence.
@highlight Mediation nonadherence to immunosuppressant therapy was associated with mild chronic graft versus host disease GVHD odds ratio 2.63 95 confidence interval 1.04 to 6.66 
@highlight  .042 with a similar trend for moderate chronic GVHD.
@highlight We did not find a difference in self reports of nonadherence based on time post transplantation.
