 Cyclophosphamide etoposide combined with fractionated total body irradiation or i.v . busulfan has been the main conditioning regimens for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for young patients with acute myelogenous leukemia eligible for a myeloablative conditioning regimen . Recent data has suggested that i.v . Bu could be the preferred myeloablative regimen in patients with myeloid malignancies . However Bu based regimens are associated with higher rates of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome . Here we report long term survival outcomes of patients with AML receiving FTBI combined with Cy or etoposide before undergoing alloHCT at City of Hope . We obtained a retrospective review of a prospectively maintained institutional registry of clinical outcomes in 167 patients with AML in first or second complete remission who underwent alloHCT at COH between 2005 and 2015 . Eligible patients received a MAC regimen with FTBI and Cy for unrelated donor transplantation or etoposide for related donor transplantation . Graft versus host disease prophylaxis was provided with tacrolimus and sirolimus . In this retrospective study 6 year overall survival was 60 and nonrelapse mortality was 15 . The GRFS rate was 45 at 1 year and 39 at 2 years . We also describe late metabolic effects and report the cumulative incidence of secondary malignancies . Overall in this young adult patient population our results compare favorably to chemotherapy based conditioning regimens without significant long term toxicity arising from TBI based regimens .

@highlight Fractionated total body irradiation based myeloablative conditioning is well tolerated in young adults with acute myelogenous leukemia.
@highlight Tacrolimus sirolimus graft versus host disease GVHD prophylaxis was associated with high rates of chronic GVHD 71 .
@highlight GVHD free relapse free survival at 2 years was low 39 indicating the dynamic nature of chronic GVHD.
@highlight This regimen was associated with a low risk of long term toxicities.
