 Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is applied to patients suffering from hematologic malignancies to replace the diseased hematopoietic system with cells derived from a donor stem cell graft . The majority of 10 10 matched unrelated donors are HLA DP mismatched and this may result in varying degrees of the graft versus leukemia effect with or without the occurrence of graft versus host disease . Allo HLA reactive T cells are commonly present in the donor T cell repertoire and thus a very profound alloreactive immune response can be provoked in the HLA DP mismatched setting . The magnitude and the diversity of the allo HLA DP specific immune response likely dictates the balance between the occurrence of GVL and or GVHD after transplantation . To understand the nature of the allo HLA DP specific immune response provoked under different stimulatory conditions immune responses were induced from both the nave and memory T cell compartments using either HLA DP mismatched professional antigen presenting cells or HLA DP mismatched nonprofessional APCs as stimulator cells . In this study we observed that allo HLA DP reactive T cells could be provoked from both the nave and memory compartments by both types of APCs . However the magnitude of the allo HLA DP specific immune response was greater when stimulation was performed with allo DCs . Moreover we found that the frequency of allo HLA DP reactive T cells was greater in the nave T cell compartment compared with the memory T cell compartment but we observed a comparable lineage specificity of these allo HLA DP specific reactivities . Overall the data from this study illustrate that the presence of professional APCs of recipient origin will mostly dictate the magnitude of the allo HLA DP specific immune response derived from both the nave and memory T cell compartments but does not exclusively mediate the induction of these immune responses .

@highlight Allo HLA DP responses can be provoked from both the nave and memory T cell compartments.
@highlight Professional hematopoietic antigen presenting cells dendritic cells DCs dictate the magnitude of allo HLA DP responses.
@highlight DCs are not pivotal for provoking allo HLA DP responses from the nave T cell compartment.
@highlight Frequencies of allo HLA DP reactive T cells are higher in the nave T cell compartment.
