 The use of myeloablative conditioning in the setting of active relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia has been hindered by high historical rates of nonrelapse mortality . FLAMSA chemotherapy followed by reduced intensity conditioning has been proposed as an effective and potentially safer alternative in this scenario . As improvements in supportive care have contributed to decreasing NRM rates after MAC a comparative reassessment of these two strategies was performed . This was a registry based analysis by the Acute Leukemia Working Party of the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation . Eligibility criteria included age 18 to 50 years primary refractory first or second relapsed active AML first allogeneic stem cell transplantation from a matched sibling donor or an unrelated donor performed between 2005 and 2018 MAC or FLAMSA RIC . A total of 1018 patients were included . The median patient age was 39 years . Two hundred and fifty eight patients received busulfan cyclophosphamide 314 received Cy total body irradiation 318 received FLAMSA TBI and 128 received FLAMSA CT . The median duration of follow up was 50 months . In univariate analysis the 2 year relapse incidence 50 57 leukemia free survival and refined graft versus host disease free relapse free survival were not significantly different between cohorts . Lower 2 year NRM was observed in the FLAMSA CT group 7 versus 16 in Bu Cy 19 in Cy TBI and 18 in FLAMSA TBI

@highlight FLAMSA fludarabine Ara C and amsacrine sequential chemotherapy followed by total body irradiation TBI based reduced intensity conditioning RIC and myeloablative conditioning MAC led to similar transplantation outcomes in relapsed refractory active acute myeloid leukemia.
@highlight FLAMSA sequential chemotherapy followed by TBI free RIC was associated with lower nonrelapse mortality resulting in increased overall survival.
@highlight There were no significant differences in relapse incidence between FLAMSA sequential chemotherapy followed by RIC and MAC.
