 Patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation are often admitted to the hospital the day they are due to begin their conditioning regimen . Timely initiation of chemotherapy during regular work hours is important for patient safety because during the night shift fewer physicians and pharmacists are available for urgent or unexpected matters . A review of the data at our institution from October 2017 to August 2018 showed that approximately one third of our chemotherapy was started during the night shift and the average time from admission to start of chemotherapy was over 8 hours . There are currently no well defined benchmarks for timeliness of chemotherapy initiation . The aim of this quality improvement initiative was to increase the percentage of patients who start chemotherapy in the bone marrow transplant unit before 19 00 from 65 to 80 by March 31 2019 . We identified barriers to timely initiation of chemotherapy through process mapping and analysis of failures . The primary barriers were late admissions and time from admission to preparation of chemotherapy . We addressed mechanisms to mitigate these barriers through Plan Do Study Act testing . Interventions included providing families specific admission times and their rationales and process for notifying pharmacy of admissions immediately on arrival . We used standardized control charts to measure the impact of the interventions on change . We also monitored medication errors before and during the intervention . From September 2018 to March 2019 the percentage of patients who started preparative chemotherapy before 19 00 increased from 65 to 85 the percentage of patients who were admitted after 12 00 remained similar before and after the interventions and the average time from admission to start of chemotherapy decreased from 8.6 hours to 6.4 hours . Medication errors were similar before and after the interventions . Using standardized processes we demonstrated a substantial decrease in the percentage of HSCT patients starting their preparative regimen after 19 00 without a concurrent increase in errors . We believe these interventions and measurements can be used in all transplant centers and have the potential to influence patient safety and outcomes .

@highlight Initiating chemotherapy during regular work hours is important for patient safety.
@highlight Barriers to this are late admissions and time from admission to chemotherapy administration.
@highlight Providing families with specific admission times and rationale improved admission times.
@highlight Prompt nursing and pharmacy communication decreased time to chemotherapy.
@highlight This multidisciplinary approach improved timeliness of chemotherapy administration.
