 Despite the fact that the choice of donors and the number of sources of hematopoietic stem cells have increased a sibling remains a preferred donor for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation . Transplant donation between siblings is a unique life experience that may have an impact on their future relationship . The aim of the study was to quantitatively measure the quality of life in patients who underwent transplant and to describe the relationship between a recipient and a sibling donor after HSCT . We identified and invited 82 adults aged 18.0 to 38.7 years who underwent HSCT in our center and their sibling donors to participate in this survey . Forty five patients and their siblings consented to take part in the study . The studied group consisted of 45 matched siblings donor HSCT recipients aged 18.0 to 36.2 years who underwent MSD HSCT at the age of 5.8 to 16.3 years and their sibling donors aged 21.0 to 36.0 years who were aged 11.2 to 20.2 years at bone marrow harvesting . For QoL and sibling relationship assessment we used the Functional Assessment of Cancer TherapyBone Marrow Transplantation and the Adult Sibling Relationship Questionnaire . Higher scores indicate better quality of life in each scale of the FACT BMT and the more significant is the factor in a sibling relationship measured by the ASQR . The questionnaires were given to both subgroups HSCT recipients and donors and the results were compared with each other . The overall result of the FACT BMT questionnaire was 117 35.0 . The highest QoL was found in the functional and social well being subscales whereas the worst was in the emotional well being subscale . Statistically the QoL score was not influenced by current age

@highlight Quality of life in adult patients after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in childhood was good.
@highlight Sibling donor recipient relationship is unbalanced with higher level of rivalry presented among donors.
@highlight Further multicenter studies are necessary to assess all aspects of sibling relationship years after transplantation experience and finally to provide effective psychological interventions for an often overlooked population of pediatric sibling donors.
