 Induced pluripotent stem cells have been applied to clinical regenerative cell therapy . Recently an iPSC banking system to collect HLA haplotype homozygous cells for iPSC transplantation in allogeneic settings was proposed and tissue transplantation generated from iPSC through banking has just began . We analyzed 5017 single cord blood transplantation pairs with HLA A B C DRB1 allele typing data and found 39 donor HLA homo donor to patient HLA heterozygous pairs . Of note all 39 HLA homo to hetero pairs engrafted neutrophils except 1 early death pair and all 30 assessable pairs engrafted platelets . Acute graft versus host disease grades II to IV and grades III to IV occurred in 17 and 3 of 38 assessable pairs respectively . Competing risk regression analysis revealed a favorable risk of neutrophil engraftment and higher risk of acute GVHD compared with HLA matched CBTs . Thirty seven of 39 homo to hetero pairs had conserved extended HLA HPs that were ethnicity specific and at least 1 of 2 patient HLA A B C and DRB1 alleles in each locus were invariably shared with the same donor HP in 35 pairs . These findings confirmed our preliminary results with 6 HLA homo CBTs and a trend of high incidence of acute GVHD was newly observed . Importantly they imply the possibility that HLA homo iPSC transplantation provides favorable engraftment and accordingly imply the merit of banking iPSC with homozygous major conserved extended HLA HPs .

@highlight All assessable patients with donor HLA homo to patient HLA hetero pairs among 5017 single CBT pairs were engrafted neutrophil 38 pairs and platelets 30 pairs and revealed a tendency of high incidence of acute GVHD.
@highlight Ethnicity specific conserved extended HLA haplotypes CEHs were invariably shared with the same donor HP in 35 pairs.
@highlight These findings imply the possibility that HLA homo iPSC transplantation provides favorable engraftment and accordingly imply the merit of banking iPSC with homozygous major CEHs.
