 Letermovir potently inhibits the cytomegalovirus terminase complex . Letermovir primary prophylaxis given for the first 3 months after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation has been shown to reduce clinically significant CMV infection and is well tolerated . Until now only case reports or small retrospective series have been published on the use of letermovir for a secondary prophylaxis of CMV infection or diseases after HCT . Here we report the outcome of 80 consecutive CMV seropositive adult patients included in the French compassionate program and who received letermovir as a SP after at least 1 CMV episode since HCT . Letermovir was initiated at a median of 170 days after transplant and given orally for a median of 118 days at the usual daily dose of 480 mg once daily and adjusted to 240 mg once daily when coadministered with cyclosporine . The donors were seronegative in 53 of the cases . Fifty patients had a current or previous graft versus host disease and 14 had experienced CMV disease since transplant . Four patients developed CMV breakthrough infections or diseases after the initiation of letermovir . In 3 of these 4 patients further investigation of virologic resistance showed a CMV UL56 mutation C325Y or W conferring the high level letermovir resistance . One or more adverse reactions were declared by the local investigator in 15 patients . Only 2 patients stopped letermovir SP because of an adverse reaction . In our experience letermovir given as a SP may prevent a new CMV reactivation in a high risk patient population and can be administered for several weeks providing a bridge between the pre emptive or therapeutic treatment of a CMV episode and CMV specific immune reconstitution giving time for tapering immunosuppressants . Prospective studies are required to confirm these results .

@highlight Letermovir was used for cytomegalovirus CMV secondary prophylaxis after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT in a compassionate program.
@highlight Letermovir was given from day 170 median for 118 days median .
@highlight The drug was well tolerated.
@highlight Only 4 of 80 patients developed a CMV recurrence during letermovir prophylaxis.
@highlight Secondary prophylaxis of CMV recurrence is feasible with letermovir after allogeneic HCT.
