 An open label phase 2 study of topical dexamethasone versus tacrolimus solutions in new onset oral chronic graft versus host disease revealed the superior efficacy of dexamethasone . The objective of this study was to report long term patterns of topical therapy utilization and clinical outcomes in this cohort after completing the 30 day trial . A retrospective record review was performed from the date of study completion to January 2017 . Topical therapies systemic immunosuppressive therapies objective measurements patient reported outcomes and adverse events were recorded for oral cGVHD related outpatient visits . Follow up periods were defined as FU1 FU2 FU3 FU4 FU5 and FU6 . Forty patients completed the clinical trial and were included in the analysis . Topical therapies used were dexamethasone tacrolimus clobetasol or a combination of these agents . At FU1 all 40 patients were receiving topical therapy which decreased to 54.5 at FU6 . Clinician reported oral mucosal scores and patient reported sensitivity scores decreased over time from FU1 to FU6 . Intralesional steroid therapy was provided to 6 patients for management of refractory oral ulcerations all within the first year of follow up . Patients with de novo symptomatic oral cGVHD may require long term care with topical immunomodulatory therapy for up to 2 years if not longer . Topical steroid and tacrolimus therapies are safe and effective in managing symptomatic oral cGVHD . Second line topical therapy for refractory oral cGVHD requires further investigation .

@highlight More than 40 of patients were still being treated with topical therapy for oral chronic graft versus host disease cGVHD at 24 months after the initiation of oral topical therapy.
@highlight Topical therapies were often switched between follow ups.
@highlight Clinician reported National Institutes of Health oral mucosal score 0 12 median improved from 3 at 1 month to 1 at 24 months.
@highlight Patient reported sensitivity score 0 10 median improved from 3 at 1 month to 2 at 6 months.
@highlight Additional studies are warranted for long term utilization of topical therapies in oral cGVHD.
