 High dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation improves survival in patients with chemosensitive non Hodgkin lymphoma . Determination of the Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Comorbidity Index has contributed to improve patient selection while allowing for prediction of nonrelapse mortality . We previously demonstrated the efficacy and safety of AHSCT in a cohort of older patients with chemosensitive NHL . Quality of life following AHSCT still has not been widely evaluated . The goal of this study was to assess the long term quality of life of elderly patients surviving AHSCT . This single center Research and Ethics Committee approved study investigated QoL in survivors of AHSCT for the treatment of NHL in a cohort of older patients . Inclusion criteria were defined as patients age 60 years who underwent AHSCT for NHL between January 1 2008 and January 1 2015 at our center . Fifty nine patients from the original cohort of 90 survived at a median of 50 months post AHSCT . Forty seven of those patients agreed to complete the QoL assessment questionnaires after the transplantation and are included in this report . All patients provided signed informed consent . We used the EQ 5D instrument to assess mobility self care usual activities pain discomfort and anxiety depression and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Bone Marrow Transplant questionnaire to assess physical social family emotional and functional well being and BMT specific concerns . With both tools a higher score indicates better QoL . Fifteen percent of patients were in relapse at the time of the QoL assessment . In the EQ 5D few patients reported severe impairment which requires significant negative effects in 4 or 5 domains . Lower Karnofsky Performance Status score at the time of transplantation was negatively correlated with mobility

@highlight Quality of life is well preserved after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation AHSCT in older patients.
@highlight Relapse remains one of the main challenges affecting quality of life.
@highlight Self care is the least affected area after undergoing AHSCT.
@highlight Older patients should not be excluded from AHSCT based solely on their age.
