 With increasing focus on the importance of long term survivorship care after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation more institutions have been establishing long term follow up clinics . Currently however with varying volumes of HCT procedures and resources there is no standardized operation of these clinics in HCT centers . We conducted a nationwide questionnaire survey to characterize the current operation of LTFU clinics in Japan . We targeted 271 HCT centers that registered allo HCT cases to the national transplant registry database . The response rate was 69 and 117 of the 188 participating centers had an established LTFU clinic . The most frequent reason cited for not operating an LTFU clinic was a lack of human resources especially nurses . Most centers with an LTFU clinic targeted allo HCT recipients although autologous HCT survivors were followed up at 18 of adult centers and 48 of pediatric centers . Ninety two percent of centers did not terminate LTFU at a specific time point and 56 recommended that patients visit the LTFU clinic beyond 5 years after HCT . Fifteen of 20 pediatric centers indicated that they did not routinely refer survivors who underwent HCT at a young age to an adult HCT center for their adulthood LTFU . We found that staffing and standard practices varied widely among centers and that most centers continued to see long term HCT survivors at their own outpatient clinics . The development of common LTFU tools may help standardize LTFU practices and facilitate efficient transitions .

@highlight The establishment rate of long term follow up LTFU clinics was 62 among participating centers in Japan.
@highlight The most frequently cited reason for not operating an LTFU clinic was a lack of human resources especially nurses.
@highlight Transplantation centers with an LTFU clinic had various staff compositions and practice approaches.
@highlight Most centers continued to follow up long term HCT survivors at their own outpatient clinic.
@highlight The development of common nationwide LTFU tools may help reduce the burden on healthcare staff and facilitate standardized interventions and efficient transitions.
