 Although CD19 directed chimeric antigen receptor T cells have been successfully used after a preceding allogeneic stem cell transplant in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia little is known about the feasibility and outcome of CAR T cell treatment in patients who have been previously allotransplanted for lymphoma . In a single center retrospective analysis course and outcome of all allografted patients treated with CD19 CAR constructs for B cell lymphoma between October 2018 and November 2019 were studied . CAR therapy consisted either of a third generation CAR or of commercially manufactured axicabtagene ciloleucel . Altogether 10 CAR T cell dosings using recipient leukapheresis products were performed in 8 patients 4 patients received 6 dosings with HD CAR 1 and 4 patients received 4 dosings with axi cel . Overall 6 of 8 patients responded . CAR treatment was well tolerated with grade 3 cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity each being observed after 1 of 10 dosings . A single patient had moderate chronic graft versus host disease . Of note 3 of 4 patients who received axi cel had ongoing grade 3 cytopenia 3 months postdosing whereas prolonged cytopenia was not observed in 9 alloHCT naive patients who received axi cel during the same time period . In conclusion CAR T cell treatment from recipient derived leukapheresis products after a prior alloHCT appears to be feasible effective and safe in patients with B cell lymphoma . Protracted cytopenia after axi cel treatment is a matter of concern and requires further exploration .

@highlight CAR T cells might be a salvage option for lymphoma relapse after alloHCT.
@highlight Information on CAR T cells in B cell lymphoma after a prior alloHCT is limited.
@highlight After prior alloHCT CD19 CAR T cell treatment in lymphoma is feasible and effective.
@highlight CAR T cells did not induce or exacerbate the risk of acute or chronic GVHD.
@highlight Protracted cytopenia after CAR T cell treatment is a matter of concern.
