 Congenital erythropoietic porphyria is a rare disease characterized by erosive photosensitivity and chronic hemolysis due to a defect of the enzyme uroporphyrinogen III synthase . To date hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only curative therapy for the devastating early and severe form of the disease . We describe 6 patients with CEP treated with HSCT between 1994 and 2016 in our center including 2 of the very first living patients treated more than 20 years ago . Four patients are doing well at 6 to 25 years post HSCT with near normal biochemical parameters of porphyrin metabolism without the cutaneous or hematologic features of CEP . One patient died within the first year after HSCT from severe graft versus host disease and 1 child died of unexplained acute hepatic failure at 1 year after HSCT despite full donor chimerism . Retrospectively it appears that all but 1 child had increased transaminase activity with onset from the early postnatal period which was significantly more marked in the child who died of liver failure . In contrast liver function values progressively normalized after engraftment in all other children . Liver pathology before HSCT for 3 patients revealed varying degrees of portal centrilobular and perisinusoidal fibrosis clarification of hepatocytes and cytosolic porphyrin deposits . The liver porphyrin content in biopsy specimens was 60 times the normal values . Despite difficult engraftment the long term efficacy of HSCT in CEP appears to be favorable and reinforces its benefits for the severe form of CEP . Hepatic involvement requires careful evaluation before and after HSCT and further investigation into its pathophysiology and care .

@highlight The very first still living recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation HSCT for early and severe forms of congenital erythropoietic porphyria CEP 25 and 22 years ago are healthy and asymptomatic with sustained corrected uroporphyrinogen III synthase activity.
@highlight Intrinsic hepatic involvement of varying intensity is present at birth with either a favorable or a fatal outcome despite HSCT engraftment.
@highlight Liver pathology revealed varying degrees of portal centrilobular and perisinusoidal fibrosis clarification of hepatocytes and cytosolic porphyrin deposits.
@highlight Due to the risks and difficulties of HSCT the indication remains limited to the severe form of CEP.
