 Mycosis fungoides and Szary syndrome are the most common types of primary cutaneous T cell lymphomas . The clinical presentation of mycosis fungoides is generally indolent whereas Szary syndrome represents a more aggressive disease variant . Stage at diagnosis is the most important determinant of long term survival outcome . Although most patients present with early stage disease those who develop progressive disease or have an advanced stage represent a therapeutic challenge because of a lack of effective therapies . Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation has been used as a potentially curative treatment modality with encouraging long term outcomes . However a lack of randomized controlled data remains and the published literature is limited to mostly retrospective studies . We performed a comprehensive search of the medical literature using PubMed Medline EMBASE and Cochrane reviews on September 13 2018 . We extracted data on clinical outcomes related to benefits and progression free survival and harms independently by 2 authors . Our search strategy identified 289 references . Five studies were included in this systematic review and meta analysis . Reduced intensity and nonmyeloablative regimens were more commonly prescribed . Mobilized peripheral blood stem cells were the preferred graft source . The pooled OS and PFS rates were 59 50 to 69 and 36 respectively . Pooled relapse rate was 47 and pooled NRM rate 19 . Results of this systematic review and meta analysis show that allo HCT yields encouraging OS and PFS rates however relapse remains a significant cause of allo HCT failure . Novel strategies to further improve outcomes should focus on offering allo HCT before the development of resistant disease and reducing relapse by incorporating post transplant maintenance therapies .

@highlight This systematic review and meta analysis demonstrates the efficacy of allo HCT in CTCL.
@highlight Pooled OS rates of 59 were observed in spite of advanced disease in most cases.
@highlight A pooled PFS rate of 36 highlights the risk of the disease relapse after allo HCT.
