 Veno occlusive disease sinusoidal obstruction syndrome is a potentially life threatening complication of hematopoietic cell transplantation that is traditionally diagnosed using Baltimore or modified Seattle criteria . Whereas the Baltimore criteria require the presence of hyperbilirubinemia for a diagnosis of VOD SOS the modified Seattle criteria do not . Before approval by the US Food and Drug Administration defibrotide was available in the United States through an expanded access study . The T IND protocol initially required post HCT diagnosis of VOD SOS by the Baltimore criteria or biopsy but was later amended to include patients diagnosed using the modified Seattle criteria . This post hoc analysis examined the incidence of VOD SOS with a bilirubin level 2 mg dL before and after Day 21 post HCT in T IND patients enrolled following the amendment allowing for diagnosis by the modified Seattle criteria . Survival of adult and pediatric patients with or without hyperbilirubinemia and with or without multiorgan dysfunction was also evaluated . Of 803 post HCT patients with VOD SOS enrolled following the protocol amendment 181 had a bilirubin level 2 mg dL and would not have been diagnosed if hyperbilirubinemia was required . The bilirubin level at diagnosis was 2 mg dL in 165 of 331 patients diagnosed by the modified Seattle criteria and in 16 of 23 patients diagnosed by biopsy . VOD SOS with a bilirubin level 2 mg dL was more common in pediatric patients although it also occurred in adult patients . Patients with hyperbilirubinemia had lower Day 100 survival and a higher incidence of MOD . The incidence of treatment emergent adverse events and serious adverse events was lower in patients with a bilirubin level 2 mg dL . These results indicate that anicteric VOD SOS occurs in both adult and pediatric patients post HCT and can be diagnosed before and after Day 21 in both groups . The worse survival in patients with bilirubin 2 mg dL suggests that requiring hyperbilirubinemia may result in a progressed disease stage associated with worse outcomes . Taken together these results highlight the importance of awareness and the possibility of VOD SOS in the absence of elevated bilirubin level .

@highlight Anicteric veno occlusive disease sinusoidal obstruction syndrome VOD SOS bilirubin 2 mg dL occurred in pediatric and adult patients.
@highlight VOD SOS with hyperbilirubinemia was associated with worse Day 100 survival.
@highlight Hyperbilirubinemia resulted in more treatment emergent and serious adverse events.
@highlight Diagnosis according to the Baltimore criteria could result in missed VOD SOS diagnoses.
