 Axicabtagene ciloleucel and tisagenlecleucel are autologous anti CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapies for the treatment of patients with relapsed refractory large B cell lymphoma . Both can induce durable responses however cross trial comparisons are difficult due to differences in study design . In this study the registration trials of axi cel and tisa cel were compared using a matching adjusted indirect comparison . A MAIC was performed to adjust for differences in patient characteristics between trials . The estimates for the ZUMA 1 trial were adjusted using patient level data to match the study population in JULIET for key variables International Prognostic Index Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group score stage refractoriness or relapsed disease double triple hit status cell of origin and number of prior lines of therapy . The endpoints analyzed were response overall survival and adverse events . After adjusting for differences in patient characteristics between trials axi cel was associated with a greater objective response rate 1.61 95 confidence interval 1.29 to 2.01 and complete response than tisa cel among patients who underwent infusion . The OS from infusion onward comparing axi cel to tisa cel had a hazard ratio of 0.51 . The indirect comparison showed a higher rate of grade 1 to 2 cytokine release syndrome in ZUMA 1 compared with JULIET and similar rates of grade 3 CRS and neurologic events . In the absence of a direct head to head study the MAIC statistical technique suggests axi cel may have superior efficacy but a greater risk of grade 1 to 2 CRS . Future real world studies can further inform the relative efficacy and safety of CAR T therapies in RR LBCL .

@highlight Direct cross trial comparison of axi cel ZUMA 1 and tisa cel JULIET chimeric antigen receptor T products is not feasible.
@highlight Matching adjusted indirect comparison successfully adjusted for differences in patient characteristics between ZUMA 1 and JULIET.
@highlight Axi cel had a higher objective response complete response and overall survival than tisa cel.
@highlight Axi cel had higher grade 1 to 2 cytokine release syndrome CRS while both products had similar grade 3 CRS and neurologic events.
