 Allogeneic blood or marrow transplantation is a potentially curative therapy for patients with primary immunodeficiency . Safe and effective reduced intensity conditioning approaches that are associated with low toxicity use alternative donors and afford good immune reconstitution are needed to advance the field . Twenty PID patients ranging in age from 4 to 58 years were treated on a prospective clinical trial of a novel radiation free and serotherapy free RIC T cell replete BMT approach using pentostatin low dose cyclophosphamide and busulfan for conditioning with post transplantation cyclophosphamide based graft versus host disease prophylaxis . This was a high risk cohort with a median hematopoietic cell transplantation comorbidity index of 3 . With median follow up of survivors of 1.9 years 1 year overall survival was 90 and grade III to IV acute GVHD free graft failure free survival was 80 at day 180 . Graft failure incidence was 10 . Split chimerism was frequently observed at early post BMT timepoints with a lower percentage of donor T cells which gradually increased by day 60 . The cumulative incidences of grade II to IV and grade III to IV acute GVHD were 15 and 5 respectively . All aGVHD was steroid responsive . No patients developed chronic GVHD . Few significant organ toxicities were observed . Evidence of phenotype reversal was observed for all engrafted patients even those with significantly mixed chimerism or with unknown underlying genetic defect . All 6 patients with pre BMT malignancies or lymphoproliferative disorders remain in remission . Most patients have discontinued immunoglobulin replacement . All survivors are off immunosuppression for GVHD prophylaxis or treatment . This novel RIC BMT approach for patients with PID has yielded promising results even for high risk patients .

@highlight We designed a novel reduced intensity radiation and serotherapy free blood or marrow transplantation BMT platform.
@highlight A high risk cohort of 20 primary immunodeficiency children and adults received BMT.
@highlight Acute graft versus host disease GVHD rates were low no chronic GVHD occurred even with alternative donor use.
@highlight Low toxicity and mortality were observed.
@highlight All engrafted patients showed evidence of phenotype reversal.
