 Patients presenting for treatment of hematologic cancers may be at increased risk for cognitive dysfunction before allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation due to advanced age previous chemotherapy treatment deconditioning and fatigue . Cognitive dysfunction may affect treatment decision making ability to recall or follow post HSCT treatment recommendations and overall survival . A total of 448 patients admitted for HSCT between 2011 and 2014 were administered the Montreal Cognitive Assessment by occupational therapists during admission before transplantation and 260 were reassessed following transplantation and before discharge . We examined select predictor variables including age Karnofsky Performance Status sex disease type psychotropic medications and select outcome variables including OS and nonrelapse mortality . Before transplantation 36.4 of patients met criteria for cognitive dysfunction . Age was found to be a significant predictor along with disease type myeloproliferative disorder . No significant association was found between cognitive dysfunction and OS or NRM . Longitudinal analysis from pretransplantation to post transplantation indicated significant decline following HSCT . Notably one third of the study cohort showed cognitive dysfunction at hospital discharge . A significant proportion of HSCT candidates present with cognitive dysfunction with older patients and those diagnosed with MDS and MPD at greatest risk in this cohort . Attention to cognitive dysfunction before transplantation may alert the treatment team to high risk cases that require increased oversight inclusion by caregivers and referral to occupational therapy at discharge . Longitudinal follow up studies are needed to clarify the specific effect of HSCT on cognitive dysfunction and the impact of cognitive dysfunction on transplantation outcomes .

@highlight Before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 36 of patients meet criteria for cognitive dysfunction.
@highlight Age and disease type are risk factors for cognitive dysfunction.
@highlight Post transplantation 33 of patients meet criteria for cognitive dysfunction.
