 Uncontrolled studies have suggested that bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells may be effective against acute graft versus host disease . We conducted a multicenter randomized study to assess the efficacy of using ex vivo cultured adult human MSC in addition to second line therapy to treat steroid refractory aGVHD . In total 260 patients 6 months to 70 years of age were enrolled from August 2006 to May 2009 and were randomized 2 1 to receive 8 intravenous infusions of remestemcel L or placebo given over 4 weeks in addition to second line therapy according to institutional standards . Four additional infusions over 4 weeks were indicated for patients with incomplete response at day 28 . Randomization was stratified by aGVHD grade . Efficacy and safety were assessed through 180 days of follow up with the primary endpoint being durable complete response defined as complete resolution of aGVHD symptoms for any period of at least 28 days after beginning treatment . Remestemcel L did not meet the primary endpoint of greater DCR in the intent to treat population . In post hoc analyses patients with liver involvement who received at least 1 infusion of remestemcel L had a higher DCR and higher overall complete or partial response rate than those who received placebo . Among high risk patients remestemcel L demonstrated significantly higher OR at day 28 than placebo . Furthermore pediatric patients had a higher OR with MSCs compared with placebo . Similar rates of adverse events were observed between treatment groups . Remestemcel L was safe and well tolerated . Results of this study did not demonstrate superior DCR compared with placebo when added to standard of care . The favorable clinical responses seen in some patient subsets may warrant further investigation .

@highlight Mesenchymal stem cells MSC versus placebo added to second line therapy for treatment of steroid refractory acute graft versus host disease aGVHD did not show benefit.
@highlight MSC infusions were well tolerated and did not result in excess adverse events compared with placebo.
@highlight Post hoc subgroup analyses suggested favorable odds of day 28 response in children and in patients with high risk aGVHD or liver involvement.
