 Chronic graft versus host disease is major cause of morbidity and mortality following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation . Ixazomib is an oral second generation proteasome inhibitor that has been shown in preclinical models to prevent GVHD . We conducted a phase I II trial in 57 patients to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ixazomib administration for cGVHD prophylaxis in patients undergoing allogeneic HCT . Oral ixazomib was administered on a weekly basis for a total of 4 doses beginning days 60 through 90 to recipients of matched related donor or matched unrelated donor allogeneic HCT in phase II portion of the study once the recommended phase II dose of 4 mg was identified in phase I . All patients received peripheral blood graft and standard GVHD prophylaxis of tacrolimus and methotrexate . Ixazomib administration was safe and well tolerated with thrombocytopenia leukopenia gastrointestinal complaints and fatigue the most common adverse events . In phase II the cumulative incidence of cGVHD at 1 year was 36 19 to 54 in the MRD cohort and 39 in the MUD cohort . One year cumulative incidence of nonrelapse mortality and relapse was 0 and 20 in the MRD cohort respectively . In the MUD cohort the respective NRM and relapse rates were 4 and 34 . The outcomes on the study were compared post hoc with contemporaneous matched Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research controls . This post hoc analysis showed no significant improvement in cGVHD rates in both the MRD 0.85

@highlight Administration of an oral proteasome inhibitor ixazomib in combination with tacrolimus and methotrexate for prevention of chronic graft versus host disease GVHD is safe and convenient but failed to show efficacy when compared with contemporaneous matched Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research controls.
@highlight B cell activating factor critical for B cell survival and maturation was elevated after administration of ixazomib in chronic GVHD free patients indicating B cell depleting effect of ixazomib.
