 Measles can be a life threatening infection in immunocompromised patients especially after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation because of the corresponding loss of immunity . However measles vaccines are live attenuated which is why measles vaccinations are recommended only in seronegative HCT recipients and in specific conditions . However little data exist on the rates of seroprotection to measles with the current conditioning regimens and in long term follow up . The objectives of this study were to assess measles immunity before considering vaccination in a cohort of allogeneic HCT long term survivors and to identify the factors associated with seropositivity seroprotection . One hundred and twenty six patients who underwent transplantation between 1 and 39 years earlier were assessed for measles immunity . Measles IgG titers were determined with an automated chemiluminescent immunoassay . Seropositivity seroprotection was defined by an IgG titer 16.5 UA mL . Patients underwent transplantation with a reduced intensity conditioning or nonmyeloablative conditioning in 46 of cases mainly for acute leukemia . Seventy eight of the 126 patients were seropositive seroprotected for measles . Among the seropositive patients the patients who had been vaccinated before transplantation had a lower median IgG titer compared with those who had not . Myeloproliferative disorder RIC or NMA conditioning and absence of acute grade II graft versus host disease were associated with seropositivity seroprotection . With a 62 rate of seropositivity seroprotection for measles at a median of 9 years after transplantation our findings strongly support a systematic assessment of anti measles antibody titers to avoid unnecessary vaccination in seroprotected patients .

@highlight In a cohort of 126 allogeneic HCT recipients who underwent transplantation between 1 and 39 years ago 62 were seropositive seroprotected for measles before any vaccination since transplantation.
@highlight The seropositivity seroprotection was associated with myeloproliferative disorder reduced intensity or nonmyeloablative conditioning and absence of acute grade 2 graft versus host disease.
@highlight Our findings strongly support a systematic assessment of antimeasles antibody titers to avoid unnecessary vaccination in seroprotected patients.
