 FLT3 ITD mutated acute myeloid leukemia remains a therapeutic challenge . FLT3 inhibition in the setting of minimal residual disease and a new immune system via allogeneic transplantation offers a promise of improved survival for these patients . We performed a prospective study of patients with FLT3 ITD AML undergoing allogeneic transplant that was conducted to evaluate the safety tolerability and outcome of sorafenib administered peritransplant . Sorafenib dosing was individualized starting at 200 mg twice a day and titrated based on tolerability or toxicities until a tolerable dose was identified . Forty four patients with a median age of 52 years undergoing allogeneic transplant were started on sorafenib in the peritransplant period . The median duration of post transplant follow up was 27.6 months . Overall survival was 76 at both 24 and 36 months . Event free survival at 24 and 36 months was 74 and 64 respectively . Ten patients died in the post transplant period with 6 deaths due to relapsed leukemia and 4 from transplant associated toxicity . Tolerable doses ranged from 200 mg every other day to 400 mg BID with similar exposure . Correlative studies evaluating FLT3 inhibition via a plasma inhibitory activity assay showed consistent inhibition of FLT3 at all tolerability determined dosing levels . Sorafenib is well tolerated in the peritransplant setting irrespective of the conditioning intensity or the donor source . Our findings indicate that sorafenib dosing can be individualized in the post transplantation setting according to patient tolerability . This approach results in effective in vivo FLT3 inhibition and yields encouraging survival results .

@highlight Sorafenib is safe and well tolerated before and after transplant if dosed according to patient adverse effects.
@highlight Sorafenib use after transplant is associated with encouraging post transplant survival in patients with FLT3 ITD acute myeloid leukemia undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
@highlight Sorafenib dosing according to patient tolerance achieves target suppression of FLT3 ITD.
