 Graft versus host disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic stem cell transplantation . These patients face a unique challenge due to the complexity of GVHD and the toxicity of treatments received . GVHD has significant impact on quality of life but this is not routinely evaluated formally . Despite the availability of patient reported outcome measures to assess QOL there is currently no consensus regarding the optimal PROMs that should be used to evaluate the impact of GVHD . We undertook a systematic review to determine the current evidence for the use of PROMs in assessment of QOL symptom burden and disease severity of patients with GVHD . A comprehensive systematic review based on the COSMIN guidelines was conducted to identify studies using PROMs in acute and chronic GVHD patients . The following databases were searched OVID Medline AMED CINAHL Embase PROQOLID ProQuest PsychINFO and Social Sciences Citation Index from inception to May 2018 . Hand searches updated the search to December 2018 . Articles were screened by 2 independent reviewers with discrepancies resolved by a third independent reviewer . Included articles were critically appraised using the COSMIN Risk of Bias tool and relevant data on measurement properties for the included PROMs were extracted from within the target population . A total of 4545 articles were identified and 64 articles reporting on 27 PROMs were included in this review . PROMs were separated into 5 groups generic patient reported measures cancer specific measures bone marrow transplantspecific measures cGVHD specific measures and dimension specific measures . Three PROMs had evidence to support strong reliability responsiveness and aspects of validity within the cGVHD population . Only 5 included PROMs were used in patients with acute GVHD . This review summarizes the current evidence regarding the use of 27 included PROMs in the context of GVHD . The choice of the most optimal PROM depends on the clinical or research context of use . Future research should comprehensively validate these tools in the GVHD population including the testing and possible development of a PROM for use in acute GVHD which remains a current critical gap in the existing literature .

@highlight This systematic review used the COSMIN methodology to identify PROMs for use in GVHD.
@highlight Twenty seven PROMs were identified with varying levels of supportive psychometric evidence.
@highlight Three PROMs had evidence to support reliability responsiveness and validity for chronic GVHD.
@highlight Few PROMs had psychometric validation for acute GVHD.
@highlight Future research should include comprehensive psychometric testing of PROMs for GVHD.
