 Historically outcomes of adult patients with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia who fail to enter remission with conventional chemotherapy are very poor . Blinatumomab a bispecific CD3 CD19 antibody has shown remarkable activity in relapsed refractory ALL . Although allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant is the recommended consolidation therapy for patients with r r ALL who respond to salvage therapy HCT and toxicity outcomes for those who received blinatumomab salvage and HCT remain largely unknown . We treated 89 patients with r r ALL with blinatumomab of whom 43 patients achieved remission . Here we describe our single center experience in the subset of patients who responded to blinatumomab salvage therapy for eradication of either gross or minimal residual disease before HCT . Overall survival at 1 and 2 years after allogeneic HCT was 77 and 52 respectively . Leukemia free survival at 1 and 2 years were 65 and 40 respectively . Additionally with blinatumomab administration pre HCT no unusual toxicities such as delayed neutrophil platelet engraftment or graft failure were observed . Acute grades II to IV graft versus host disease at day 100 post HCT was at 43 and 2 year chronic GVHD was 36 both comparable with historic control subjects . Finally results of our subset analysis based on pre HCT minimal residual disease status indicated no significant difference in survival outcomes among patients undergoing transplant in MRD negative status and the entire cohort . In conclusion based on results of this study blinatumomab may be considered as a safe and effective agent for r r ALL patients before HCT .

@highlight HCT outcomes were analyzed in r r ALL patients after salvage with blinatumomab.
@highlight Pre HCT blinatumomab was given for morphologic n 24 or MRD positive disease n 11 .
@highlight No unusual toxicities or delayed engraftment was observed post HCT.
@highlight Subgroup analysis MRD cytogenetics showed no significant difference in survival.
@highlight Blinatumomab may be considered as a safe and effective salvage therapy pre HCT.
