 Analysis of specific leukocyte subsets for post transplantation monitoring of chimerism provides greater sensitivity and clinical informativeness on dynamic changes in donor and recipient derived cells . Limitations of the most commonly used approach to chimerism testing relying on PCR based analysis of microsatellite markers prompted us to assess the applicability of digital droplet PCR amplification of deletion insertion polymorphisms for lineage specific chimerism testing in the related stem cell transplantation setting where the identification of informative markers facilitating the discrimination between donor derived and recipient derived cells can be challenging . We analyzed 100 genetically related patient donor pairs by ddPCR analysis using commercially available DIP kits including large sets of polymorphic markers . At least 1 informative marker was identified in all related pairs analyzed and 2 or more discriminating markers were detected in the majority of instances . The achievable detection limit is dependent on the number of cells available for analysis and was as low as 0.1 in the presence of 20 000 leukocytes available for DNA extraction . Moreover the reproducibility and accuracy of quantitative chimerism analysis compared favorably to highly optimized microsatellite assays . Thus the use of ddPCR based analysis of DIP markers is an attractive approach to lineage specific monitoring of chimerism in any allogeneic transplantation setting .

@highlight Analysis of deletion insertion polymorphisms DIPs by digital droplet dd PCR represents a powerful technique for the sensitive and quantitative detection of overall and lineage specific chimerism.
@highlight The DIP marker panel used was demonstrated to be informative in any donor recipient constellation including the related transplant setting.
@highlight Analysis of specific cell subsets isolated by flow sorting had a detection limit of .1 .
@highlight In terms of quantitative analysis the results of ddPCR analysis were highly comparable to those of short tandem repeat PCR which has been considered the gold standard in post transplantation diagnostic testing of chimerism.
