 The COVID 19 pandemic has created significant barriers to timely donor evaluation cell collection and graft transport for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation . To ensure availability of donor cells on the scheduled date of infusion many sites now collect cryopreserved grafts before the start of pretransplantation conditioning . Post transplantation cyclophosphamide is an increasingly used approach for graft versus host disease prophylaxis but the impact of graft cryopreservation on the outcomes of allo HCT using ptCY is not known . Using the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research database we compared the outcomes of HCT using cryopreserved versus fresh grafts in patients undergoing HCT for hematologic malignancy with ptCY . We analyzed 274 patients with hematologic malignancy undergoing allo HCT between 2013 and 2018 with cryopreserved grafts and ptCY . Eighteen patients received bone marrow grafts and 256 received peripheral blood stem cell grafts . These patients were matched for age graft type disease risk index and propensity score with 1080 patients who underwent allo HCT with fresh grafts . The propensity score which is an assessment of the likelihood of receiving a fresh graft versus a cryopreserved graft was calculated using logistic regression to account for the following disease histology Karnofsky Performance Score HCT Comorbidity Index conditioning regimen intensity donor type and recipient race . The primary endpoint was overall survival . Secondary endpoints included acute and chronic graft versus host disease non relapse mortality relapse progression and disease free survival . Because of multiple comparisons only P values .01 were considered statistically significant . The 2 cohorts were similar in terms of patient age KPS diagnosis DRI HCT CI donor graft source and conditioning intensity . One year probabilities of OS were 71.1 68.3 to 73.8 with fresh grafts and 70.3 with cryopreserved grafts . Corresponding probabilities of OS at 2 years were 60.6 and 58.7 . In matched pair regression analysis graft cryopreservation was not associated with a significantly higher risk of mortality for cryopreserved versus fresh 1.05 95 CI .86 to 1.29 P .60 . Similarly rates of neutrophil recovery platelet recovery grade III IV acute GVHD NRM and relapse progression were similar with cryopreserved grafts versus fresh grafts . There were somewhat lower rates of chronic GVHD and DFS with graft cryopreservation that were of marginal statistical significance after adjusting for multiple comparisons . Overall our data indicate that graft cryopreservation does not significantly delay hematopoietic recovery increase the risk of acute GVHD or NRM or decrease OS after allo HCT using ptCY .

@highlight In post transplantation cyclophosphamide based allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation graft cryopreservation was not associated with significantly higher mortality.
@highlight Cryopreserved grafts were not associated with significantly delayed hematopoietic recovery or increased risk of acute graft versus host disease GVHD .
@highlight Cryopreserved grafts were associated with lower risk of chronic GVHD and inferior disease free survival but these differences were of only borderline statistical significance.
