 Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only curative option available for patients with thalassemia major in India with increasing access to alternate donor transplantation for patients with no matched family donor . We aimed to analyze the impact of family and alternate donor HSCT on morbidity and mortality post HSCT . We conducted a retrospective study in the department between July 2007 and December 2018 where all children who underwent HSCT for thalassemia major were included . A total of 264 children were included with a median age of 6 years . The graft source was matched related donor and matched unrelated donor . All children received a myeloablative conditioning regimen with treosulfan thiotepa fludarabine in 93 and busulfan cyclophosphamide in 7 . The source of stem cells was peripheral blood in 61 bone marrow in 38 and umbilical cord blood in 3 . The incidence of bacteremia was 14 versus 25 in MRD versus MUD groups . There was a higher incidence of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome in the MUD group . Engraftment occurred in 97 with a higher trend toward mixed chimerism in the MRD group . When indicated whole blood donor lymphocyte infusion was used to ensure complete chimerism in children in the MRD group . A statistically significant difference was found in the incidence of graft versus host disease both acute and chronic between the MUD versus MRD groups 60 versus 20 and 41 versus 17 respectively

@highlight With advances in supportive care and a higher index of suspicion for adverse effects early interventions can help provide equivalent overall survival rates of 93 in children undergoing family and alternative donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation HSCT for thalassemia major.
@highlight Immediate complications like infections 25 versus 21 are similar but the incidence of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome is higher 10 versus 3 in matched unrelated donor MUD children and they require short term intensive care support.
@highlight Newer steroid sparing agents for graft versus host disease GVHD reducing the dose of CD34 to less than 510
@highlight  kilogram and slow tapering of immunosuppression after the first 18 months help reduce morbidity and mortality due to GVHD and help optimize outcomes among the MUD HSCT recipients.
