 As the world of cellular therapy expands to include immune effector cell products such as commercial chimeric antigen receptor T cells quality management professionals are faced with creating either new IEC stand alone programs or expand existing hematopoietic cell transplantation programs to promote patient safety and be aligned with quality regulatory and accreditation requirements . The team professionals at City of Hope recently expanded the quality HCT program to include IEC products and in doing so implemented new regulatory infrastructure while maintaining high quality patient care . At COH we developed the quality structure of our cellular therapy program through collaborations between quality regulatory and CAR T patient care committees which included physicians and nurse coordinators . To ensure the quality of our program we monitor data collection and reporting perform quarterly proactive audits of for example outcome analysis and measure selected end points for benchmarking purposes . QM professionals play a critical role in the monitoring and evaluation processes and provide guidance on how to implement accreditation requirements and what impact the requirements may have on care management . Here we describe the process by which COH expanded our HCT QM program to include IEC therapy . We share examples of how we developed our overall program structure and other key items such as how we addressed patient care management and accreditation to apprise other programs that wish to create and or expand existing programs .

@highlight Establishing a quality program for immune effector cell IEC therapy requires a multidisciplinary approach.
@highlight Considerations such as standardization of patient care management and data management are crucial for a new IEC quality program.
@highlight IEC quality programs must align accreditation and federal requirements with institutional policies.
@highlight Auditing and reporting are essential elements of IEC quality programs.
