 With post transplantation cyclophosphamide as graft versus host disease prophylaxis nonmyeloablative HLA haploidentical and HLA matched blood or marrow transplantation have comparable outcomes . Previous reports have shown that discontinuation of immunosuppression as early as day 60 after infusion of a bone marrow haplo allograft with PTCy is feasible . There are certain diseases in which peripheral blood may be favored over BM but given the higher rates of GVHD with PB excessive GVHD is of increased concern . We report a completed prospective single center trial of stopping IS at days 90 and 60 after NMA PB stem cell transplantation . Between 12 2015 7 2018 117 consecutive patients with hematologic malignancies associated with higher rates of graft failure after NMA conditioned BMT and PTCy received NMA PB allografts on trial . The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of reducedduration IS . Of the 117 patients the most common diagnoses were myelodysplastic syndrome acute myelogenous leukemia myeloproliferative neoplasms myeloma and chronic lymphoblastic leukemia . Shortened IS was feasible in 75 patients overall . Ineligibility for shortened IS resulted most commonly from GVHD followed by early relapse nonrelapse mortality patient physician preference or graft failure . Of the 57 patients in the D90 cohort 33 stopped IS early as planned and among the 60 patients in the D60 cohort 42 stopped IS early as planned . The graft failure rate was 2.6 . After IS cessation the median time to diagnosis of grade II IV acute GVHD was 21 days in the D90 cohort and 32 days in the D60 cohort with almost all cases developing within 40 days . Approximately one third of these patients resumed IS . All outcome measures were similar in the 2 cohorts and our historical outcomes with 180 days of IS . The cumulative incidence of grade III IV acute GVHD was low 2 in the D90 cohort and 7 in the D60 cohort . The incidence of severe chronic GVHD at 2 years was 9 in the D90 cohort and 5 in the D60 cohort . The 2 year overall survival was 67 for both the D90 and D60 cohorts . The 2 year progression free survival was 47 for the D90 cohort and 52 for the D60 cohort and the GVHD free relapse free survival was 35 for both cohorts . These data suggest that reduced duration IS in patients undergoing NMA PBSCT with PTCy is feasible and has an acceptable safety profile .

@highlight This safety and feasibility study of haploidentical peripheral blood transplantation and unrelated donors demonstrates that a substantial subset of patients can discontinue immunosuppression as graft versus host disease prophylaxis as early as day 60.
@highlight Shortened duration immunosuppression may decrease the risk of relapse and enable earlier and or more effective post transplantation therapies to further improve disease related outcomes. The report includes the proportion of patients who required resumption of immunosuppression.
