 Fanconi anemia is the most common inherited bone marrow failure syndrome and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only curative option . Post transplant cyclophosphamide is challenging in this group of children given their increased sensitivity to chemotherapy . We performed a retrospective analysis of the data on children diagnosed with Fanconi anemia who underwent a haploidentical HSCT with PTCy from January 2014 to December 2019 . Nineteen children underwent 21 haplo HSCTs with PTCy . Fludarabine low dose cyclophosphamide and 200 centi gray total body irradiation were included in the conditioning regimen with 25 mg kg PTCy on days 3 and 4 . Haplo graft was from a sibling in 38 and father in 57 of transplants . The source of stem cells was peripheral blood stem cells in 81 and bone marrow in 19 of transplants with a median CD34 dose of 5.010

@highlight Haploidentical stem cell transplantation with post transplant cyclophosphamide can be considered a viable option in children with Fanconi anemia particularly in resource limited settings given the high costs of hematopoietic stem cell transplantations with an overall survival of 68.4 .
@highlight Peripheral blood stem cells provide early engraftment decreasing the risk of prolonged neutropenia and sepsis with a focus on maintaining CD34 and CD3 dose of a minimum of 510
@highlight  kg and 1.510
@highlight  kg recipient body weight respectively in the infused graft.
@highlight Supportive care measures including
@highlight  acetyl cysteine infused concomitantly with cyclophosphamide on day 3 and day 4 can help decrease the incidence of severe mucositis and transaminitis and thereby reduce regimen related toxicity.
@highlight Monitoring ferritin as a surrogate marker for IL 6 levels and cytokine release syndrome with log increases combined with clinical features as the basis for instituting early steroids can decrease the mortality associated with cytokine release syndrome.
@highlight Ruxolitinib can be a useful second line agent for chronic graft versus host disease GVHD with good responses in those with skin and mouth GVHD.
