 Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy using engineered cytotoxic T cells has shown promising responses in various hematologic malignancies . Cytokine release syndrome and immune effector cell associated neurologic syndrome are recognized toxicities of CAR T whereas kidney injury remains less well recognized . The objective of the present study was to identify the incidence of acute kidney injury after CAR T cell therapy potential risk factors and recovery of kidney function . We performed a retrospective review of 46 adult patients with non Hodgkin lymphoma treated with CAR T therapy between February 2018 and February 2019 at our institution . Serum creatinine values before CAR T therapy through day 100 were used to assess AKI as defined by the Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes criteria grade 1 1.5 to 2 fold of baseline grade 2 2 to 3 fold of baseline grade 3 3 fold of baseline . CRS and ICANS were graded using the consensus criteria of the American Society of Transplantation and Cellular Therapy . The overall incidence of CRS was 78.3 66 to 90.5 of whom 13 developed grade 3 4 CRS whereas the overall incidence of ICANS was lower at 45.7 . The cumulative incidence of any grade AKI by day 100 was 30 with a grade 1 AKI incidence of 21.7 and a grade 2 3 AKI incidence of 8.7 . No patients developed severe AKI necessitating renal replacement therapy . Patients with previous autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation those requiring intensive care unit level care and with grade 3 4 CRS had a higher incidence of AKI . Most patients recovered with kidney function returning to baseline within 30 days . We conclude that with early recognition and management of CAR T complications the incidence of AKI is low the severity of injury is mild and most patients recover kidney function within 30 days .

@highlight The incidence of acute kidney injury following chimeric antigen receptor T cell CAR T cell therapy is low.
@highlight Previous hematopoietic cell transplantation intensive care unit admission and grade 3 4 cytokine release syndrome after CAR T therapy may increase the risk of acute kidney injury AKI .
@highlight Most patients who experience AKI after CAR T therapy recover kidney function.
