 Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative treatment for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes and myelodysplastic myeloproliferative neoplasms . However post HSCT relapse remains a major cause of treatment failure . Here we assessed the efficacy of a new conditioning regimen comprising decitabine busulfan cyclophosphamide fludarabine and cytarabine for allo HSCT in patients with MDS and MDS MPN . A total of 48 patients were enrolled including 44 with MDS and 4 with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia . Patients received Dec 20 mg m

@highlight Until now decitabine has been used more often for bridge treatment before allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation allo HSCT or rescue treatment of relapsed myelodysplastic syndrome MDS after transplantation. In this study 5 day decitabine was added for the first time to the conditioning regimen with a satisfactory overall survival OS 86 disease free survival DFS 77 and incidence of graft versus host disease GVHD grade III IV acute GVHD of 23 .
@highlight Currently the only curative therapy for MDS myeloproliferative neoplasm is allo HSCT but disease recurrence is a major cause of treatment failure after transplantation. In our series we observed only 5 relapses 10 . In particular in the analysis of 25 patients in high extremely high risk groups the 2 year relapse rate and OS were 20 and 78 respectively. All 4 patients who did not achieve complete remission after chemotherapy had DFS after transplantation and the 2 year DFS for 37 patients who had active disease before HSCT was 74 .
@highlight Among the total 14 patients with poor risk mutations including mutations of
@highlight  and
@highlight  only 1 patient 8 with
@highlight mutation relapsed and 1 8 with
@highlight and
@highlight mutations died. In other words patients with mutations associated with poor clinical outcome could benefit more from the condition regimen containing decitabine.
@highlight To gain more insight into the promising clinical outcomes achieved in our cohort we studied CD3
@highlight T cells and CD3
@highlight CD16
@highlight 56
@highlight natural killer NK cells. We found that proper but not excessive levels of NK cells predicted for more benefits to hypomethylating agent conditioning therapy further suggesting the potential use of testing NK cells to predict patient outcomes after allo HSCT.
