 The integration of antithymocyte globulin into therapy has significantly reduced the incidence of graft versus host disease and is being actively used in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation . The ATG dosage is determined by the recipient s body weight but some insist that this approach does not reflect the actual target of ATG . In this respect weight based dosing may lead to ATG overdose particularly in recipients with a relatively low absolute lymphocyte count . We retrospectively analyzed 84 patients with acute leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome who underwent matched related donor allo HSCT with reduced intensity conditioning at a single institution . Patients were dichotomized according to the ALC measured on the first day of conditioning to investigate the associations of the ALC with GVHD and survival outcomes . The median duration of follow up was 29 months . The preconditioning ALC was closely correlated with the ALC at the first ATG administration . The cumulative incidences of both acute GVHD and chronic GVHD were significantly lower in the preconditioning ALC 500 L group compared with the ALC 500 L group . There was no significant difference in disease relapse incidence between the 2 groups however mortality was significantly higher in the ALC 500 L group . Multivariate analysis including disease status modified European Blood and Marrow Transplantation score and preconditioning ALC identified disease status and ALC as being independently associated with overall survival . In particular infection was the most common cause of death in the ALC 500 L group . Our data suggest that uniform weight based ATG dosing in MRD allo HSCT with RIC is associated with an increase in nonrelapse mortality and a relatively inferior OS in patients with a significantly low preconditioning ALC . Therefore alternative strategies for the integration of ATG should be considered in allo HSCT at least for patients with a substantially low preconditioning ALC .

@highlight We investigated the association between preconditioning absolute lymphocyte count ALC and outcomes in recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation who received reduced intensity conditioning and were treated with antithymocyte globulin ATG .
@highlight Preconditioning ALC 500 L was associated with less graft versus host disease but higher nonrelapse mortality.
@highlight Preconditioning ALC 500 Lwas a prognostic indicator for overall survival.
@highlight Conventional ATG dose may harm to those with substantially low preconditioning ALC.
