 Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a primary treatment for various inherited metabolic disorders . Achieving stable and sustained engraftment while minimizing transplantation related morbidity and mortality is critical to optimizing outcomes for IMDs . Traditional regimens have used myeloablative approaches primarily busulfan and cyclophosphamide which is associated with significant regimen related toxicity . Alternatively reduced toxicity regimens such as busulfan and fludarabine have been proposed to offer similar efficacy with reduced toxicities . We compared transplantation related outcomes with BuCy based and BuFlu based conditioning in patients with IMDs . We retrospectively analyzed the University of Minnesota s transplantation database for patients with IMDs who underwent HCT using a BuCy or BuFlu preparative regimen between March 2008 and September 2017 . Overall survival event free survival and incidence of neutrophil and platelet recovery were determined using standard definitions . Complications such as graft failure sinusoidal obstruction syndrome hemorrhagic cystitis and respiratory failure were compared . Graft failure includes primary and secondary aplastic graft failure with and without autologous recovery . The incidence of viral infections post transplantation in the 2 regimens was also determined . A total of 99 patients underwent HCT for IMDs during the study period . Sixty four patients received BuCy conditioning and the other 35 received BuFlu . Hurler syndrome and adrenoleukodystrophy were the most common IMDs and umbilical cord blood was the most common graft source . One year OS was similar in the 2 groups 81.2 in BuCy versus 85.5 in BuFlu

@highlight BuCy based conditioning is associated with greater regimen related toxicity but earlier CD3 donor engraftment.
@highlight BuFlu based conditioning is associated with lower toxicity but higher rates of graft failure and immune cytopenias.
@highlight Newer approaches and modification of conditioning regimen are needed to optimize benefits.
