 Transplantation associated thrombotic microangiopathy is an important complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation . To date information regarding the organs that are affected by TA TMA as confirmed histologically remains limited the clinicopathologic differences between renal TA TMA and intestinal TA TMA have not been examined despite being the well known and commonly affected sites of TA TMA . We therefore examined 165 autopsied patients after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and compared the clinicopathologic factors of renal and intestinal TA TMA . It was clear that 38 of our patients had TA TMA . In the TA TMA cases the kidney and intestine were commonly affected and the ileum and right colon were vulnerable . Other organs that we found to be affected by TA TMA included the stomach gallbladder and oral cavity pharynx esophagus liver heart urinary bladder and ureter and symptoms thought to be caused by TA TMA of these organs were not observed in any patient . Histologically TA TMA only affected the arteriole or small arteries regardless of the organ and the veins or larger arteries were not affected at all . In the kidney the glomerular capillary was also affected and mesangiolysis and double contours of the basement membranes were often in evidence . The histologic overlap of renal and intestinal TA TMA was rare and the patients in the intestinal TA TMA group exhibited more frequency of a history of intestinal acute graft versus host disease during the clinical course compared with that of the renal TA TMA group 80 versus 22

@highlight We systemically evaluated transplantation associated thrombotic microangiopathy TA TMA in the largest number of autopsied patients.
@highlight The kidney and intestine were commonly affected by TA TMA.
@highlight Many organs were initially histologically confirmed as TA TMA sites.
@highlight The histologic overlap of renal and intestinal TA TMA was rare at the autopsy.
@highlight Intestinal TA TMA was more closely associated with a history of intestinal graft versus host disease.
