 Potentially curative but high risk trials of gene therapy or stem cell transplantation for sickle cell disease pose new opportunities for adults with SCD many of whom experience significant disease burden and complications with few treatment options as well as stigma and disparities in care . We explored motivations and decision making processes of enrollees and decliners of such trials . Semistructured interviews were conducted with a purposive sample of 20 enrollees and 6 decliners . Interviews explored participants SCD experiences motivations and decision making about trial participation understanding of research related information and retrospective reflections . Interviews were analyzed with content analysis . Most identified the purpose of research risks and uncertainties of participation . Both enrollees and decliners described deliberative weighing of study risks and potential benefits with heavy factoring of their SCD status experiences and desire for a better life . Despite the influence of spirituality religion and support of family and friends all described the decision about participation as their own . In some patients the primary outcome status defined by the trial did not match the patients perceived outcomes . Patients with negative experiences expressed a desire for greater emphasis on risks and possible outcomes during informed consent . This cohort of adults with SCD were thoughtfully deliberative in their decisions about gene therapy or PBSCT trials . Future participants decision making may be enhanced by emphasizing that successful scientific outcomes can still involve complications or symptoms and be facilitated by referrals to former research participants and anticipatory discussions .

@highlight Adults with sickle cell disease SCD correctly identified research purpose risks and uncertainties of gene therapy or stem cell transplantation trials.
@highlight Patients engaged in deliberative individualized weighing of study risks and potential benefits in light of their SCD experiences.
@highlight Family friends and religion played a supportive but not decisive role.
@highlight Patients subjective experiences did not always coincide with objective trial outcomes.
