 Graft versus host disease can manifest as acute or chronic complications in patients after hematopoietic cell transplantation . Oral chronic GVHD occurs in approximately 70 of HCT recipients and includes lichenoid like mucosal reactions restricted mouth opening and salivary gland dysfunction . However the underlying histopathological presentation remains to be validated in large cohorts . We characterized the histopathological features of oral mucosal cGVHD and devised a scoring model in a large patient cohort . Oral mucosal biopsy sections with and without oral cGVHD were identified from archived and current HCT recipients with additional healthy controls . Histological screening was performed on hematoxylin and eosin stained and periodic acid Schiff stained sections . A points based grading tool was established based on intraepithelial lymphocytes and band like inflammatory infiltrate atrophic epithelium with basal cell liquefaction degeneration including apoptosis as well as separation of epithelium and pseudo rete ridges . Validation involved 62 biopsy specimens including post HCT and healthy specimens . Remaining biopsy specimens were blindly graded by 3 observers . Histological severity was correlated with clinical diagnostic and distinctive features demonstrating a spectrum of individual patient severity including frequent signs of subclinical GVHD in healthy mucosa . However oral cGVHD presented with significantly higher scores compared with HCT controls with moderate to high positive likelihood ratios for inflammatory infiltrate exocytosis and basal membrane alterations . The grade II IV biopsy specimens demonstrated a histopathological diagnosis of active mucosal lichenoid like cGVHD highlighting the importance of correlating clinical presentation with the dynamic histopathological processes for improved patient stratification . In addition this tool could be used for assessing treatments pathological processes and immune cellular content to provide further insight into this debilitating disease .

@highlight This is a large cohort analysis defining oral mucosal chronic graft versus host disease cGVHD histology.
@highlight A formalized histological grading tool is described.
@highlight Histology is correlated with clinical staging to define oral mucosal cGVHD criteria.
@highlight Grades II to IV define pathological diagnostics of oral mucosal cGVHD.
@highlight Patients are stratified into groups for improved diagnostics and tailored treatments.
