 Many patients with multiple myeloma eventually relapse even after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for curative intent.Over the past decade outcomes for patients with MM have improved significantly with the availability of new therapies including next generation proteasome inhibitors immunomodulatory agents and more recently monoclonal antibodies . Although several published studies have evaluated the outcomes of alloHCT for MM the data on survival outcomes in patients with MM experiencing disease relapse following alloHCT are limited . In addition the predictors for postrelapse survival in these patients are not known . In this study we examined the outcomes of a single center cohort of 60 patients with MM who experienced relapse or progression after alloHCT . In addition we evaluated the use of salvage regimens for treatment of relapsed MM and analyzed the predictors for improved postrelapse survival . After a median follow up of 2.2 years from the time of relapse the median duration of postrelapse survival was 1.8 years 1.2 to 5.0 years . Patients received a median of 3 lines of therapy for treatment of MM beyond the post alloHCT relapse progression . Multivariate analysis identified cytogenetic risk .34 P .01 time to relapse after alloHCT 12 months versus 12 months HR .41

@highlight Long term survival is feasible in high risk patients with multiple myeloma MM who relapse after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation alloHCT . This is best achieved using combination treatment and donor lymphocyte infusion DLI . DLI can be incorporated without a significantly increased risk of graft versus host disease GVHD .
@highlight Cytogenetic risk time to relapse after alloHCT development of acute GVHD before relapse impact survival after relapse in allogeneic transplant recipients. There is a continued need to improve GVHD prophylaxis and treatment strategies.
@highlight The risk of GVHD after MM relapse post alloHCT is associated with the use of immunomodulatory drugs and checkpoint inhibitors. There are limited data to support the use of checkpoint inhibitors in this population.
