 Optimal administration of busulfan is hampered by variable and unpredictable drug metabolism in individual patients . At our institution Bu was previously administered with fixed weight based dosing in combination with cyclophosphamide and etoposide for patients with non Hodgkin lymphoma undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation . In 2014 we adopted real time pharmacokinetic guided therapeutic drug monitoring of Bu for all NHL patients undergoing Bu containing ASCT . Here we compare outcomes of NHL patients who underwent ASCT with Bu Cy E using WBD and those who did so using TDM of Bu . We studied 336 consecutive adult NHL patients who underwent ASCT with Bu Cy E using WBD from January 2007 to December 2013 or TDM from May 2014 to December 2017 excluding patients with mantle cell lymphoma . Clinical outcomes including relapse nonrelapse mortality progression free survival and overall survival hepatotoxicity and pulmonary toxicity were compared in the 2 groups . To adjust for differences in baseline characteristics between the groups propensity matched cohorts of WBD and TDM patients were also studied . After the first dose of Bu the dose was increased in 36 of the patients and decreased in 41 . Changes in pulmonary and liver function from baseline to transplantation were not different between the 2 groups although these changes showed significantly less variability with TDM than with WBD . Relapse was significantly lower and PFS was improved with TDM 2 year estimates were 19 for TDM and 38 for WBD for relapse

@highlight Previous studies have shown that pharmacokinetic PK directed therapeutic dose monitoring TDM of i.v. administered busulfan results in a larger proportion of patients receiving desired busulfan exposure.
@highlight Comparison of PK directed dosing of busulfan as part of preparative regimen for autologous stem cell transplantation ASCT did not appear to improve outcomes of historical controls with non Hodgkin lymphoma NHL treated with standard BEAM chemotherapy but a prospective trial showed improved relapse and nonrelapse morality in patients with AML MDS undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation with PK directed versus weight based dosing of busulfan.
@highlight In the present study of sequential cohorts of patients with NHL undergoing ASCT using weight based dosing or TDM of busulfan we found improvements in relapse rates and progression free survival using TDM.
