 Long driving distances to transplantation centers may impede access to care for hematopoietic cell transplantation survivors . As a secondary analysis from the multicenter INSPIRE study we examined baseline data from relapse free HCT adult survivors to investigate the association between driving distances and patient reported outcome measures of distress and physical function . We analyzed predictors of elevated distress and impaired physical function using logistic regression models that operationalized driving distance first as a continuous variable and separately as a dichotomous variable . Of 1136 patients available for analysis from 6 US centers median driving distance was 82 miles and 44 resided 100 miles away from their HCT centers . Elevated distress was reported by 32 of patients impaired physical function by 19 and both by 12 . Driving distance whether operationalized as a continuous or dichotomous variable had no impact on distress or physical function in linear regression modeling . In contrast chronic graft versus host disease lower income and lack of Internet access independently predicted both elevated distress and impaired physical function . In summary we found no impact of driving distance on distress and physical function among HCT survivors . Our results have implications for how long term follow up care is delivered after HCT with regard to the negligible impact of driving distances on PROs and also the risk of a digital divide worsening outcomes among HCT survivors without Internet access .

@highlight Distances from hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT centers exceed 100 miles for 44 of survivors.
@highlight We examined driving distances distress and physical function among HCT survivors.
@highlight Chronic graft versus host disease and low income predicted worsened distress and function.
@highlight Interestingly lack of Internet access also predicted worsened distress and function.
@highlight Surprisingly driving distance had no impact on distress or physical function.
