 Chronic graft versus host disease remains a significant late effect issue for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation survivors contributing to morbidity and mortality . The etiology of cGVHD is not well elucidated . Owing to a lack of early diagnostic tests and pathophysiology ambiguity targeted treatments remain limited . Biomarkers for prediction control response or prognostication have not yet been identified . Metabolomics the quantification of metabolites is a potential biomarker of cGVHD but has not been evaluated in this population . In this study we examined global metabolites of stored plasma to identify differentially expressed metabolites of individuals discordant for cGVHD following allo HCT . A descriptive comparative cross sectional study design was used to examine differentially expressed metabolites of plasma samples obtained from 40 adult allo HCT recipients from 2 parent studies . Metabolomics profiling was conducted at the University of Florida s Southeast Center for Integrative Metabolomics . Full experimental methods followed a previously published method . All statistical analyses were performed by a PhD prepared trained bioinformatics statistician . There were 10 differentially expressed metabolites between participants with cGVHD and those without cGVHD . Differential metabolites included those related to energy metabolism amino acid metabolism lipid metabolism caffeine metabolism and neurotransmission . Serotonin had the greatest fold change . This study suggests that cGVHD may be associated with expanded cellular energy and potentially mitochondrial dysfunction . The differential metabolic profile between patients with and without cGVHD indicates metabolic perturbations that merit further exploration as potential biomarkers of cGVHD . These findings support the need for further examination using a larger prospective study design to identify metabolomic risk factors that may signal the need for earlier preventive measures and earlier treatment to reduce cGVHD .

@highlight Differential metabolite expression was noted in those discordant for chronic graft versus host disease cGVHD .
@highlight cGVHD may be associated with expanded cellular energy.
@highlight Metabolic perturbations may be useful to help characterize cGVHD.
@highlight Serotonin may be a promising candidate biomarker of cGVHD.
@highlight More research is needed to identify metabolic risk factors of cGVHD.
