 Outbreaks of viral infections such as measles are regularly observed and pose a serious threat to recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation . The questions of how long cellular and humoral protective host immunity persists and whether donor immunity can be transferred has not been clarified . Here we present a retrospective analysis of humoral immunityserial antibody titers against measles mumps and rubellain 331 patients who underwent allogeneic HCT at our single center between 2002 and 2015 . Associations between the loss of protective antibody levels and clinical patient characteristics and transplantation parameters were examined . In general antibody protection against measles persisted longer with 72 of patients maintaining sufficient titers at 5 years post HCT even without revaccination while at that time only 65 and 50 of patients had protective immunity against rubella and mumps respectively . The great majority of donors were seropositive for all 3 viruses however it appeared that donor humoral immunity could not be transferred and had no impact on post HCT serostatus . Rather the most relevant factor for persistent protective antibody titers against measles and rubella was whether patients were born before the introduction of the respective vaccine and thus were immunized by the wild type disease inducing virus instead of the vaccine . Moreover the presence of moderate and severe chronic graft versus host disease was associated with more rapid loss of immune protection . In contrast underlying disease intensity of the conditioning regimen use of antithymocyte globulin age and graft source had no influence on antibody titers . Overall our findings suggest that the majority of antibodies against measles mumps and rubella originate from residual host cells whereas donor immune status appears to have no influence on antibody protection post HCT .

@highlight Loss of protective antibody levels over time differed substantially between measles mumps and rubella in patients following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT .
@highlight Protective immunity against measles and rubella that was acquired by wild type viral infection persisted longer than immunity due to vaccination.
@highlight Intensity of the conditioning regimen and the use of antithymocyte globulin had no influence on the decline of antibody titers against measles mumps and rubella post HCT.
@highlight The presence of chronic graft versus host disease was associated with a more rapid loss of protective immunity against measles post HCT.
