 There are more than 30 million potential unrelated hematopoietic progenitor cell donors listed on international registries but 30 to 50 are unavailable after matching a patient . In the United States racial ethnic minorities opt out of donation at higher rates and a previous study identified factors associated both with attrition and ethnic group membership . Attrition among minorities is also higher in the Anthony Nolan UK registry and 56 in nonwhite British but it is not clear what factors produce higher attrition in the United Kingdom and whether they are similar to those found in the United States . Three hundred fifty seven UK potential donors who matched a patient completed a questionnaire . Key factors were compared by donation decision and by race ethnicity . The pattern of UK results was compared with that of the previous US study for variables assessed in both studies . Across WB and NWB donors higher attrition was associated with poorer physical mental health greater ambivalence and more concerns about donation . Donors who opted out also reported less interaction with the registry and 16 indicated that more interaction with the registry would have changed their decision . Those opting out of the registry and minorities were both more likely to report religious objections to donation and to mistrust the fairness of HPC allocation . The pattern of findings was similar in UK and US samples . Registries should maintain contact with potential donors after recruitment aiming to educate members about the donation procedure and to address potential misconceptions associated with religious beliefs and HPC allocation .

@highlight Potential HPC donors who opted out were more ambivalent and had more concerns.
@highlight Potential HPC donors who opted out reported less interaction with the registry.
@highlight Sixteen percent said more interaction with the registry would have changed their decision.
@highlight Minorities reported more religious objections and mistrust about HPC allocation.
@highlight Patterns of results were similar for UK and US based registries.
