 The pharmacokinetics of low dose busulfan were investigated as a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen for autologous gene therapy in pediatric subjects with adenosine deaminase deficient severe combined immunodeficiency disease . In 3 successive clinical trials which included either retroviral or lentiviral vectors subjects were conditioned with BU using different dosing nomograms . The first cohort received BU doses based on body surface area the second cohort received doses based on actual body weight and in the third cohort therapeutic drug monitoring was used to target a specific area under the concentration time curve . Neither BSA based nor ABW based dosing achieved a consistent cumulative BU AUC in contrast TDM based dosing led to more consistent AUC . BU clearance increased as subject age increased from birth to 18 months . However weight and age alone were insufficient to accurately predict the dose that would consistently achieve a target AUC . Furthermore various clinical laboratory and genetic factors were analyzed but no single finding predicted subjects with rapid versus slow clearance . Analysis of BU AUC and the postengraftment vector copy number in granulocytes a surrogate marker of the level of engrafted gene modified hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells demonstrated gene marking at levels sufficient for therapeutic benefit in the subjects who had achieved the target BU AUC . Although many factors determine the ultimate engraftment following GT this work demonstrates that the BU AUC correlated with the eventual level of engrafted gene modified HSPCs within a vector group with significantly higher levels of granulocyte VCN in the recipients of LV modified grafts compared to recipients of RV transduced grafts . Taken together these findings provide insight into low dose BU pharmacokinetics in the unique setting of autologous GT for ADA SCID and these dosing principles may be applied to future GT trials using low dose BU to open the bone marrow niche .

@highlight Low dose busulfan can open the bone marrow niche in the setting of gene therapy.
@highlight Body surface area and weight based dosing resulted in variable busulfan plasma exposure.
@highlight Therapeutic drug monitoring based dosing resulted in consistent plasma exposure.
@highlight Busulfan clearance increased as subject age increased from birth to 18 months.
