 Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is being increasingly performed as an alternative to bone marrow transplantation however PBSCT has not been proven to have equivalent outcome to BMT . We conducted a meta analysis to compare survival rates and treatment related complications between PBSCT and BMT for pediatric hematologic malignancies . We searched Medline Embase plus Embase classics and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for the terms hematopoietic stem cell transplantation AND allogeneic transplantation AND children including randomized controlled studies and cohort studies without language limitations . We identified 7 of 5368 studies for inclusion in our meta analysis . The cohorts of these studies included a total of 4328 patients 3185 who underwent BMT and 1143 who underwent PBSCT . Five year overall survival was similar in the 2 groups 1.17 95 confidence interval .91 to 1.52 as was the 5 year event free survival . The incidences of nonrelapse mortality and chronic graft versus host disease were higher in the PBSCT group compared with the BMT group . This meta analysis found insufficient evidence to conclude that peripheral blood stem cells are equivalent to bone marrow . The results indicate that bone marrow can still be a preferred donor source for pediatric hematologic malignancies .

@highlight We report a meta analysis comparing survival rates and treatment related complications between peripheral blood stem cell transplantation PBSCT and bone marrow transplantation BMT for pediatric hematologic malignancies.
@highlight Overall survival and event free survival were comparable in the PBSCT and BMT groups.
@highlight The incidences of nonrelapse mortality and chronic graft versus host disease were higher in the PBSCT group compared with the BMT group.
@highlight This meta analysis found insufficient evidence to conclude that peripheral blood stem cells are superior to bone marrow and the results indicate that bone marrow can still be a preferable donor source for pediatric hematologic malignancies.
