 Radioimmunotherapy has the potential to reduce the incidence of relapse after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in patients with advanced stage multiple myeloma . In this study we evaluated the efficacy of RIT in combination with chemotherapy based reduced intensity conditioning . RIT was based on the coupling of an anti CD66 antibody to the beta emitter 188 rhenium for targeted bone marrow irradiation . Between 2012 and 2018 30 patients with MM most of them heavily pretreated with various therapies including proteasome inhibitors immunomodulatory drugs anti CD38 antibodies and autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation were treated with a RIT RIC combination before allo HCT . In addition to a fludarabine plus melphalan or treosulfan based RIC a median dose of 18.1 Gy 14.6 to 24.1 Gy was applied to the bone marrow . After a median duration of follow up for surviving patients of 2.1 years the 2 year progression free survival and overall survival rates were 43 26 to 73 and 55 respectively . The 2 year nonrelapse mortality and cumulative incidence of progression were 17 and 46 respectively . Renal toxicity and mucositis were the most frequent extramedullary side effects . In conclusion the addition of RIT to RIC was safe and feasible and resulted in promising outcomes compared with those previously reported for RIC based allo HCT without the addition of RIT in patients with relapsed refractory MM . Nevertheless despite the addition of RIT relapse after allo HCT remained a major determinant of therapeutic failure . Therefore the development of novel RIT strategies is needed .

@highlight Radioimmunotherapy RIT is a novel concept for conditioning in patients with multiple myeloma MM .
@highlight CD66 directed RIT was combined with reduced intensity conditioning RIC .
@highlight The CD66 RIT RIC strategy is safe and feasible for patients with MM.
@highlight The combined therapy results in promising outcomes after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in patients with MM.
