 In most clinical oncology trials time to first event analyses are used for efficacy assessment which often do not capture the entire disease process . Instead the focus may be on more complex time to event endpoints such as the course of disease after the first event or endpoints occurring after randomization . We propose relapse and immunosuppression free survival as an innovative and clinically relevant outcome measure for assessing treatment success after hematopoietic stem cell transplant . To capture the time dynamic relationship of multiple episodes of immunosuppressive therapy during follow up relapse and nonrelapse mortality a multistate model was developed . The statistical complexity is that the probability of RIFS is nonmonotonic over time thus standard time to first event methodology is inappropriate for formal treatment comparisons . Instead a generalization of the Kaplan Meier method was used for probability estimation and simulation based resampling was suggested as a strategy for statistical inference . We reanalyzed data from a recently published phase III trial in 201 leukemia patients after SCT . The study evaluated long term treatment success of standard graft versus host disease prophylaxis plus a pretransplant antihuman T lymphocyte immunoglobulin compared with standard prophylaxis alone . Results suggested that treatment increased the long term probability of RIFS by approximately 30 during the entire follow up period which complements the original findings . This article highlights the importance of complex endpoints in oncology which provide deeper insight into the treatment and disease process over time . Multistate models combined with resampling are highlighted as a promising tool to evaluate treatment success beyond standard endpoints . An example code is provided in the Supplementary Materials .

@highlight Relapse and immunosuppression free survival were novel endpoints after transplant.
@highlight These endpoints were formulated and statistically analyzed by multistate methodology and resampling.
@highlight A randomized clinical trial was conducted on GVHD prophylaxis.
@highlight The difference between treatment groups was estimated as approximately 30 over 8 years.
@highlight An R code was provided to promote our methods to the transplant community.
