 Patients with severe thalassemia commonly have a survival that is significantly shorter than that of the general population . Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only established treatment that is potentially curative but it is limited by the availability of donors and the medical condition of the patient . To expand the donor pool to include haploidentical related donors we introduced a program consisting of a pharmacologic pretransplant immune suppression phase and 2 courses of dexamethasone and fludarabine followed by pretransplant conditioning with fludarabine i.v . busulfan and post transplant graft versus host disease prophylaxis with cyclophosphamide tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil . We transplanted 83 consecutive transfusion dependent patients with thalassemia with a minimum follow up of 6 months the 3 year projected overall and event free survival is over 96 and there have been no secondary graft failures . Of the first 31 patients we had 2 graft failures both of them occurring in patients with extremely high titers of anti donor specific HLA antibodies but after adjusting the PTIS to include bortezomib and rituximab for patients with high titers of anti DSAs and using pharmacologic dose guidance for busulfan we had no graft failures in the last 52 patients . Six of 83 patients developed severe GVHD . We conclude that this is a safe and efficacious approach to allogeneic SCT in thalassemia yielding results comparable to those available for patients with fully matched donors .

@highlight Allogeneic stem cell transplant SCT is curative for patients with severe thalassemia. It can be safely performed with a sequence of a pretransplant immunosuppressive therapy PTIS of pulse fludarabine and dexamethasone followed by a reduced intensity regimen of fludarabine and i.v. busulfan as well as peripheral blood progenitor transplant with post transplant cyclophosphamide based immunosuppression.
@highlight Patients with very high titers of anti donor specific antibodies 1 3000 further benefited from the addition of bortezomib and Rituxan to the PTIS phase to alleviate antibody mediated graft rejection.
@highlight With this approach SCT now be safely carried out using both matched and mismatched aka haploidentical donors with a 3 year event free and overall survival of 95 regardless of donor type and without having any increased risk for mortality in patients who are older than 7 years and having hepatomegaly i.e. the Lucarelli group III high risk subset .
@highlight This demonstrates that there is no reason to take the risk s of total body irradiation to secure engraftment in this group of patients who are at high risk for graft failure.
