 Paper based diagnostics are rapid robust affordable and user friendly thus have potential for point of care . Modulation of sample flow in these technologies have the advantage of increased exposure between immunoreagents which ensures higher sensitivity and specificity . In this study common membrane types were compared and modified to modulate sample flow . Five different membranes were compared glassfiber polyester nitrocellulose polyvinylidene difluoride and cellulose . Several parameters were tested for their effect on the sample flow membranes absorption capacity immobilization of buffer solution different membrane types as separation layer and sample volume . The effect of separation membrane on the sample flow was tested using a Stack Pad sensor layout . Higher antibody levels could reach the three absorption pads with the use of polyester separation membrane as compared to the glassfiber separation membrane thus potentially increasing the sensor sensitivity . Lastly the effect of the membrane type and its modifications on the detection sensitivity was also compared . The finalized modified setup demonstrated a higher detection sensitivity vs. the initial setup . To conclude the selection of membrane types and their modifications can modulate sample flow and increase the sensitivity of detection in paper diagnostics .

@highlight Sample flow modulation in paper diagnostics increase exposure between immunoreagents that may increase sensor performance.
@highlight Selection of membrane types and their modifications modulate sample flow and may increase the sensitivity of detection.
@highlight Five different membranes were compared glassfiber polyester nitrocellulose polyvinylidene difluoride and cellulose.
@highlight Polyester membrane as separation layer and skim milk tween based buffer promotes antibody release and flow in the sensor.
@highlight Control of membranes type and their modifications inside paper based sensor increased sensing sensitivity and performance.
