 During the last decades the flourishing scientific field of molecular pathogenesis brought groundbreaking knowledge of the mechanisms of pathogenicity and the underlying bacterial virulence factors to cause infectious diseases . However a major paradigm shift is currently occurring after it became increasingly evident that bacterial host and host host cell interactions including immune responses orchestrated by defined virulence factors are not the sole drivers of infectious disease development . Strong evidence has been collected that information and nutrient flow within complex microbial communities as well as to and from host cells and matrices are equally important for successful infection . This particularly holds true for gastrointestinal pathogens and the GI microbiota interacting and communicating with each other as well as with the host GI mucus and mucosa . Gut adapted pathogens appear to have developed powerful and specific strategies to interact with human GI mucus including the microbiota for nutrient acquisition mucosal adhesion inter species communication and traversing the mucus barrier . This review covers the existing evidence on these topics and explores the mutual dynamics of host GI mucus the mucosal habitat and incoming acute and chronic pathogens during GI infections . A particular focus is placed on the role of carbohydrates in diverse mucosal interaction communication and competition processes . Novel techniques to analyze and synthesize mucus derived carbohydrates and to generate mucus mimetics are introduced . Finally open questions and future objectives for pathogen host GI mucus research will be discussed .

@highlight The niche of the GI mucosa as a complex and dynamic habitat of synergistic and competitive forces shaping pathogens glycans and microbiota.
@highlight Focus on the interaction of microbial pathogens with mucus and mucus components.
@highlight Mucus and mucins as a playground for unsurpassed carbohydrate diversity and relevance for pathogen attachment nutrition and pathogenesis.
@highlight Novel technologies in mucus and glycan analysis and biosynthesis including Nano MSI analytics glycan platforms and cell based glyco arrays.
@highlight Emerging and future research themes in mucus pathogen interaction are proposed and discussed.
