 As part of the type I IFN signaling the 2 5 oligoadenylate synthetase proteins have been involved in the progression of several non viral diseases . Notably OAS has been correlated with immune modulatory functions that promote chronic inflammatory conditions autoimmune disorders cancer and infectious diseases . In spite of this OAS enzymes have been ignored as drug targets and to date there are no reports of compounds that can inhibit their activity . In this study we have used homology modeling and virtual high throughput screening to identify potential inhibitors of the human proteins OAS1 OAS2 and OAS3 . Altogether we have found 37 molecules that could exert a competitive inhibition in the ATP binding sites of OAS proteins independently of the activation state of the enzyme . This latter characteristic which might be crucial for a versatile inhibitor was observed in compounds interacting with the residues Asp75 Asp77 Gln229 and Tyr230 in OAS1 and their equivalents in OAS2 and OAS3 . Although there was little correlation between specific chemical fragments and their interactions intermolecular contacts with OAS catalytic triad and other critical amino acids were mainly promoted by heterocycles with electrons and hydrogen bond acceptors . In conclusion this study provides a potential set of OAS inhibitors as well as valuable information for their design development and optimization .

@highlight Although OAS proteins exert an antiviral role they are also involved in the progression of several non viral diseases.
@highlight OAS acts as an immune modulator in chronic inflammatory conditions autoimmune disorders cancer and infectious diseases.
@highlight OAS enzymes have been ignored as drug targets and to date there are no compounds that can inhibit their activity.
@highlight We found 37 molecules that could compete for the ATP binding sites of OAS regardless of the activation state of the enzyme.
@highlight Potential OAS inhibitors are provided as well as valuable information for their design development and optimization.
