 Thyroid carcinoma is one of the most frequent endocrine cancers and has increasing morbidity . Annexin A2 has been found to be highly expressed in various cancers however its expression level and potential mechanism in THCA remain unknown . This study investigated the clinicopathological value and primary molecular machinery of ANXA2 in THCA . Public RNA sequencing and microarray data were obtained and analyzed with ANXA2 expression in THCA and corresponding non cancerous thyroid tissue . A Pearson correlation coefficient calculation was used for the acquisition of ANXA2 coexpressed genes while edgR limma and Robust Rank Aggregation were employed for differentially expressed gene in THCA . The probable mechanism of ANXA2 in THCA was predicted by gene ontology and pathway enrichment . A dual luciferase reporter assay was employed to confirm the targeting relationships between ANXA2 and its predicted microRNA . Expression of ANXA2 was significantly upregulated in THCA tissues with a summarized standardized mean difference of 1.09 based on 992 THCA cases and 589 cases of normal thyroid tissue . Expression of ANXA2 was related to pathologic stage . Subsequently 1442 genes were obtained when overlapping 4542 ANXA2 coexpressed genes with 2248 DEGs in THCA these genes were mostly enriched in pathways of extracellular matrix receptor interaction cell adhesion molecules and complement and coagulation cascades . MiR 23b 3p was confirmed to target ANXA2 by dual luciferase reporter assay . Upregulated expression of ANXA2 may promote the malignant biological behavior of THCA by affecting the involving pathways or being targeted by miR 23b 3p .

@highlight Significant upregulation of ANXA2 expression is evidenced in thyroid carcinoma by multiple detecting approaches.
@highlight Upregulated ANXA2 is strongly related to the development of thyroid carcinoma.
@highlight ANXA2 coexpressed genes are mostly enriched in the pathway of extracellular matrix receptor interaction.
@highlight ANXA2 is a target of miR 23b 3p in thyroid carcinoma.
