 Circular RNAs a large group of small endogenous noncoding RNA molecules have been proved to modulate protein coding genes in the human genome . In recent years many experimental studies have demonstrated that circRNAs are dysregulated in a number of diseases and they can serve as biomarkers for disease diagnosis and prognosis . However it is expensive and time consuming to identify circRNA disease associations by biological experiments and few computational models have been proposed for novel circRNA disease association prediction . In this study we develop a computational model based on the random walk and the logistic regression to predict circRNA disease associations . Firstly a circRNA circRNA similarity network is constructed by calculating their functional similarity of circRNA based on circRNA related gene ontology . Then a random walk with restart is implemented on the circRNA similarity network and the features of each pair of circRNA disease are extracted based on the results of the random walk and the circRNA disease association matrix . Finally a logistic regression model is used to predict novel circRNA disease associations . Leave one out validation five fold cross validation and ten fold cross validation are adopted to evaluate the prediction performance of RWLR by comparing with the latest two methods PWCDA and DWNN RLS . The experiment results show that our RWLR has higher AUC values of LOOCV 5CV and 10CV than the other two latest methods which demonstrates that RWLR has a better performance than other computational methods . Whats more case studies also illustrate the reliability and effectiveness of RWLR for circRNA disease association prediction .

@highlight Random walk with restart can get the global relationship information from circRNA circRNA similarity network.
@highlight Gaussian Interaction Profile Kernel similarity is not suitable for circRNA circRNA similarity calculation.
@highlight Integrating global information in Logistic Regression can improve the prediction performance.
