 Glutaredoxins the oxidoreductase proteins are involved in several cellular processes including maintenance of cellular redox potential and iron sulfur homeostasis . The analysis of 503 amino acid sequences from 167 cyanobacterial species led to the identification of four classes of cyanobacterial Grxs i.e . class I II V and VI Grxs . Class III and IV Grxs were absent in cyanobacteria . Class I and II Grxs are single module oxidoreductase while class V and VI Grxs are multimodular proteins having additional modules at their C terminal and N terminal end respectively . Furthermore class VI Grxs were exclusively present in marine cyanobacteria . We also report the identification of class VI Grxs with two novel active site motif compositions . Detailed phylogenetic analysis of all four classes of Grxs revealed the presence of several subgroups within each class of Grx having variable dithiol and or monothiol catalytic active site motif and putative glutathione binding sites . However class II Grxs possess CGFS type highly conserved monothiol catalytic active site motif . Sequence analysis confirmed the highly diverse nature of Grx proteins in terms of their amino acid composition though sequence diversity does not affect the overall 3D structure of cyanobacterial Grxs . The active site residues and putative GSH binding residues are uncharged amino acids which are present on the surface of the protein . Additionally the presence of hydrophilic residues at the surface of Grxs confirms their solubility . Protein ligand interaction analysis identified novel glutathione binding sites on Grxs . Regulation of Grxs encoding genes expression by light quality and quantity as well as salinity suggests their role in determining the fitness of organisms under abiotic factors .

@highlight Four classes of Grxs were found in 167 cyanobacteria based on phylogenetic analyses.
@highlight Two novel active site motifs CPFS and CPFC were identified in class VI Grxs for the first time.
@highlight Active site and putative glutathione binding site are composed of uncharged amino acids.
@highlight Protein ligand interaction analysis identified novel glutathione binding sites.
@highlight Grx encoding genes of
@highlight PCC 7942 are regulated by high PAR UVR and salinity.
