 The mitochondrial solute carrier genes are highly conserved during vertebrate evolution . In most SLC25 genes of zebrafish chicken mouse and human the introns are located at exactly superimposable positions . In these topographically corresponding introns we studied the composition of the initial and terminal hexanucleotides which are instrumental in splicing signaling focusing on the evolutionary conservation mutation dynamics of these genetically related sequences . At each position the per cent conservation of zebrafish individual nucleotides in chicken mouse and human is proportional to their percent frequency in zebrafish furthermore nucleotide mutations are biased in favor of the more represented nucleotides thus compensating for those highly represented zebrafish nucleotides which have not been conserved . As a result of these evolutionary dynamics the general nucleotide composition at each position has remained relatively conserved throughout vertebrates . At 5ss following the canonical GT A and G are largely prevailing at position 3 A at 4 and G at 5 AGx . At 3ss T and C are largely prevailing at positions 6 5 and 3 preceding the canonical intron terminal AG xAG . However the actual composition of the tetranucleotides at 5 and 3 often does not conform to the above scheme . At 5ss the more canonical sequence is completely expressed in 63 of cases and partially in 37 of cases . At 3ss the more canonical sequence is completely expressed in 71 of cases and partially in 29 of cases . The nucleotide conservation loss is higher in the evolution from fish to the last common ancestor of birds and mammals then diminishes in the successive evolution steps up to the mammalian common ancestor and becomes still lower at the divergence of rodents and primates .

@highlight In this analysis of the zebrafish chicken mouse and human homologous SLC25 gene introns we describe the conservation mutation dynamics of the zebrafish 5ss and 3ss in the evolution to birds and mammals.
@highlight Mitochondrial solute carrier genes of zebrafish chicken mouse and human the introns are located at exactly superimposable positions.
@highlight As a result of evolutionary dynamics the general nucleotide composition at each position has remained remarkably conserved throughout vertebrates.
@highlight Conservation loss is higher in the evolution from fish to the last common ancestor of birds and mammals and diminishes in the successive evolution steps up to the mammalian common ancestor and becomes still lower at the divergence of rodents and primates.
@highlight The family of the SLC25 homologous genes presents aspects of an overall long term evolutionary exon intron architecture stability which contrasts with the wide range variability of the intron ends signals.
