 In this study the network pharmacological methods were used to predict the target of active components of Chaihu Lizhong Tang in the treatment of non alcoholic fatty liver disease . The active components of CHLZT their targets and NAFLD related targets were screened by multiple databases and the potential targets of CHLZT in the treatment of NAFLD were predicted . The active component target network of CHLZT was constructed by Cytoscape software . The potential target of CHLZT for the treatment of NAFLD constructed protein protein interaction network in the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes Database . The hub genes of CHLZT in the treatment of NAFLD were screened by network topological parameters and the results were verified by molecular docking . ClusterProfiler in R was used for Gene Ontology analysis and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis . OB 30 and DL 0.18 were selected as the screening criteria of active components . A total of 83 active components and 456 targets were selected . Based on the evaluation of topological parameters of degree network five hub genes for interaction with CHLZT therapy for NAFLD were screened that is AKT1 ALB IL6 EGFR and CASP3 . The results of molecular docking showed that the active components in CHLZT had a good binding ability with the key targets . The enrichment analysis results showed that the treatment of NAFLD with CHLZT mainly involved in cofactor binding protease binding AGE RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications and IL 17 signaling pathway which mediated the potential mechanism of CHLZT intervention in NAFLD . The molecular mechanism of CHLZT in the treatment of NAFLD indicated the synergistic features of multi component multi target and multi pathway of traditional Chinese medicine which provided an important scientific basis for further elucidating the mechanism of CHLZT in the treatment of NAFLD .

@highlight Network pharmacology was employed to clarify the mechanism of the efficacy of Chaihu Lizhong Tang CHLZT in the treatment of non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD .
@highlight Five hub genes were screened out for Chaihu Lizhong Tang CHLZT in the treatment of non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD .
@highlight CHLZT treated NAFLD mainly involved in cofactor binding protease binding AGE RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications and IL 17 signaling pathway.
