 The Protein Structure Prediction problem comprises among other issues forecasting the three dimensional native structure of proteins using only their primary structure information . Most computational studies in this area use synthetic data instead of real biological data . However the closer to the real world the more the impact of results and their applicability . This work presents 17 real protein sequences extracted from the Protein Data Bank for a benchmark to the PSP problem using the tri dimensional Hydrophobic Polar with Side Chains model . The native structure of these proteins was found by maximizing the number of hydrophobic contacts between the side chains of amino acids . The problem was treated as an optimization problem and solved by means of an Integer Programming approach . Although the method optimally solves the problem the processing time has an exponential trend . Therefore due to computational limitations the method is a proof of concept and it is not applicable to large sequences . For unknown sequences an upper bound of the number of hydrophobic contacts can be found due to a linear relationship with the number of hydrophobic residues . The comparison between the predicted and the biological structures showed that the highest similarity between them was found with distance thresholds around 5.28.2 . Both the dataset and the programs developed will be freely available to foster further research in the area .

@highlight The proposed method finds optimal folds with maximum number of hydrophobic side chain contacts.
@highlight The computational effort of the method grows exponentially with the number of hydrophobic amino acids.
@highlight The linear correlation between the number of hydrophobic side chain contacts and the number of hydrophobic amino acids may establish an upper bound for further studies.
@highlight Results indicate that the best range of thresholds to define a hydrophobic contact is between 5.2 and 8.2. In this range the proposed method give conformations most similar to the real world proteins.
@highlight Using only the maximization of hydrophobic contacts to drive the folding process is not enough to accurately predict real protein structures.
@highlight It is provided a benchmark with 17 real protein sequences optimally folded according the 3D HP SC model.
@highlight All the software developed are made freely available including the program for extracting and converting biological sequences to the HP 3D SC model and integer programming optimization.
