 Ovarian Cancer is the most occurring gynecological cancer worldwide often diagnosed at a later stage and ultimate results in a high death rate . To overcome this serious health concern it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms and equally significant to identify the putative biomarkers as well as the therapeutic drug targets for the early diagnosis and treatment of OVCA . In doing so a strategy is designed to study the most frequently diagnosed cases of OVCA called as High Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma cell lines with the combination of computational biology biostatistics and cancer informatics approaches . This study is directed to investigate the global gene expression profiling and to perform the analyses of identified global Differently Expressed Genes of OVCA . The microarray dataset is comprised of tumor and cell line samples of OVCA and it was used for the identification of DEGs in the current study . The STRING database was used to construct Protein Protein Interaction network of DEGs and hub genes were identified by the CytoHubba . In addition a functional enrichment analysis of up and down regulated DEGs was performed by a bioinformatics database called as DAVID . The microRNAs and transcription factors analyses were conducted with the aid of biological tools MAGIA and GenCOdis3 respectively . As a result the genes comprised of CSF1R TYROBP PLEK FGR ACLY ACACA LAPTM5 C1 or f162 IL10RA and CD163 were identified as hub genes . Additionally miRNA analysis resulted in finding an association of zinc finger protein with OVCA comes out after implementing different algorithms . On the other hand in the TFs analysis resulted in various DEGs that were enriched by NFAT NF1 and GABP TFs . In this study it was observed that ACACA ACLY and CSF1R DEGs showed significant occurrence in different steps and therefore these genes were studied precisely . Nevertheless the results may help to discover the potential biomarkers with deep understanding of molecular mechanisms . However further validation is required to explain the OVCA pathogenesis .

@highlight We identified 154 DEGs in OVCA tumor and cell line samples.
@highlight DEGs have been used to investigate hub genes for complex networks.
@highlight Functional enrichment analysis of miRNAs and TFs of DEGs have been carried out.
@highlight In various steps the DEGs ACACA ACLY and CSF1R showed significant enrichment and were effectively studied.
