 Dengue is a mosquito borne viral infection caused by Dengue virus and is an emerging concern in public health affecting billions of people worldwide annually with no effective drugs available till now . Immunogenic and highly conserved properties of Non Structural Protein 5 in DENV makes it a potent marker to identify DENV infection . DENV interfere in the innate immune signaling and thereby decreases antiviral responses and favors viral replication . Viral recognition by host pathogen recognition receptors facilitates binding of interferon to the interferon receptors that further activates both the Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 2 a factor producing an antiviral response . The most debilitating factor of DENV infection is emaciation of human immune system by DENV NS5 . NS5 counters the antiviral response by STAT2 degradation impeding the transcriptional activation of interferon stimulated genes through interferon stimulated response elements . The present study aims to identify inhibitors for NS5 Methyl Transferase domain and to provide an insight into the mechanism of STAT2 degradation in the host infected with DENV . Virtual screening and molecular docking studies identified five potential inhibitors ZINC84154300 ZINC08762321 ZINC08762323 ZINC12659408 and ZINC12285470 with docking scores of 10.55 10.53 10.78 11.28 and 10.78kcal mol respectively . To further investigate the stability of the complexes we have used Molecular Dynamics Simulations . Besides the binding free energy of top 5 docked ligands were estimated through Molecular Mechanics Generalized Born and Surface Area Solvation methods . This study also provides an insight on the mechanism of immunological processes involved in alleviating the antiviral immune response and computational identification of potent inhibitors for viral NS5 protein .

@highlight Protein protein interaction of NS5 STAT2 complex playing major role in signaling mechanism for Dengue infection.
@highlight The binding mode and potential interaction of NS5 STAT2 complex have been identified from the protein protein docking studies.
@highlight The MTase domain of NS5 protein have been targeted to prevent the host recognition of STAT2 protein in viral replication.
@highlight The Identified compounds showed high binding score and energy compared to the reported inhibitor.
@highlight The interactions of screened compounds is similar to the inhibitor bound crystal structure.
